Truly, sir, in respect of a fine workman, I am but,
Doth move the murmuring lips of discontent
For first he was contract to Lady Lucy--
'Twixt his stretch'd footing and the scaffoldage,--
Which but attends thy naming.
teeth and sing. I know a man that had this trick of
Say'st thou me so? What colour is this cloak of?
Fellow, be gone: I cannot brook thy sight:
And rouse the prince and ring a hunter's peal,
Am not I your Rosalind?
Then there's life in't. Nay, if you get it, you
And Romeo dead; and Juliet, dead before,
Exit one with the Clerk
Why he's a devil, a devil, a very fiend.
Whereto thy tongue a party-verdict gave:
No more of him; he is a worthy man: make way, they
Resign'd the crown to Henry the Fourth,
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this.
Yet hope, succeeding from so fair a tree
Upon such sacrifices, my Cordelia,
And, madam, there is order ta'en for you;
We have at disadvantage fought and did
And, fairy-like, to-pinch the unclean knight,
Ay, my good son.
For thou wast got i' the way of honesty.
To acquaint you with this evil, that you might
have spoke the least:
Exit an Attendant
presently.
Lay it by too: another.
And now you should be as your mother was
I am sure on't, not a word.
As we his subjects have in wonder found,
Of what we chance to sentence.
Is it but thought so? what are they that think it?
I do the wrong, and first begin to brawl.
No, but to the gate; and there will the devil meet
Exeunt DON JOHN and BORACHIO
On whose employment I was sent to you:
Search out thy wit for secret policies,
What, will you not suffer me? Nay, now I see
And downright languish'd. Leave me solely: go,
'Farewell:'
To help me after? I will kiss thy lips;
Stands on a tickle point, now they are gone:
But, being over-full of self-affairs,
Warrant me welcome to my Proteus.
A trade, sir, that, I hope, I may use with a safe
Then leave her, sir; for, by the power that made me,
What safe and nicely I might well delay
It cannot be this weak and writhled shrimp
Exit one to Abbess
Hath often still'd my brawling discontent.
No, my good lord, Diana.
How came she by that light?
This is much credit to you.
A thousand hearts are great within my bosom:
of my servants, for, to speak to you like an honest
another laced, an old rusty sword ta'en out of the
world's pleasure and the increase of laughter.
No new device to beat this from his brains?
Repair'd with double riches of content.
Seal'd up the doors, and would not let us forth;
Why, I am sorry for thee, gentle Silvius.
say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall halt
You should not ruffle thus. What will you do?
Well, nobles, well, 'tis politicly done,
Both sides are even: here I'll sit i' the midst:
Let me confirm my princely brother's greeting:
Let him appear.
youth will aptly receive it, into a most hideous
'Tis wondrous heavy. Wrench it open straight:
Alas, why gnaw you so your nether lip?
Here was a royal fellowship of death!
'Tis almost morning; I would have thee gone:
Why, the enemy is loud; you hear him all night.
I'll play the housewife for this once. What, ho!
I served my king, he would not in mine age
Tybalt, that murderer, which way ran he?
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
flagon of Rhenish on my head once. This same skull,
and old Northumberland, and that sprightly Scot of
A most fine figure!
By this day and this light, the fellow has mettle
What say you to the lady? Love's not love
Nay then, two treys, and if you grow so nice,
Anon becomes a mountain. O noble Dauphin,
The law allows it, and the court awards it.
Trebonius doth desire you to o'erread,
Thaisa was my mother, who did end
Before I strike this bloody stroke, farewell.
But speedily.
We sympathize: Jove, let AEneas live,
To entertain your highness and your empress.
By custom and the ordinance of times
How I had moved them. Bring me to Octavius.
Here comes his majesty.
Yet, to have join'd with France in such alliance
Nay, 'twill be this hour ere I have done weeping;
Why, tell me, is not this my Cambio?
Now, by the world, it is a lusty wench;
Yourself, held precious in the world's esteem,
remedy presents itself. I do make myself believe
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
So tell your cousin, and bring me word
Because you talk of pride now,--will you not be angry?
her life: I shall give thee opportunity at
Delivering o'er to executors pale
Early and late, debating to and fro
Who is lost too: take your patience to you,
hear of me, so think of me. Go, comfort your
Exit, with his soldiers
She that doth fast till you come home to dinner,
A fasting tiger safer by the tooth,
No, I protest, I know not the contents:
Three foot of it doth hold: bad world the while!
Were very pregnant and potential spurs
Which I have heavily borne, there ran a rumour
I prithee, let me bring thee where crabs grow;
friend here in necessity and denying him; and for
They will not answer to that epithet;
Hail!
Yet I must speak. Choose your revenge yourself;
Some enigma, some riddle: come, thy l'envoy; begin.
Her part, poor soul! seeming as burdened
Here an alarum again: and TALBOT pursueth the  DAUPHIN, and driveth him: then enter JOAN LA  PUCELLE, driving Englishmen before her, and exit after them then re-enter TALBOT
SCENE IV. London. The Temple-garden.
Fellow, come from the throng; look upon Caesar.
One eye thou hast, to look to heaven for grace:
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and Soldiers
They humbly sue unto your excellence
Enter APEMANTUS and Fool
And now no more ado, brave Burgundy,
[Beneath]  Swear.
I will, my lord.
No.
And you, my gentle knight, give me your thoughts:
You do him wrong, surely.
Why then, to-morrow I cannot serve your turn for Rosalind?
Come, side by side together live and die.
Enter KING LEAR, fantastically dressed with wild flowers
ACT IV
if you pardon, we will mend:
it: and, to stop up the displeasure he hath
Wilt thou spit all thyself? The seaman's whistle
His promises were, as he then was, mighty;
Come, take away. Lavinia, go with me:
Your voice shall be as strong as any man's
So, two more already.
She shall be dignified with this high honour--
Thy sister's naught: O Regan, she hath tied
And I will speak, that so my heart may burst.
If I might in entreaties find success--
Come, you look paler and paler: pray you, draw
And, for the ways are dangerous to pass,
What fool is this?
Away, unpeaceable dog, or I'll spurn thee hence!
name, the which he hath used so long and never paid
my father is here look'd for every day,
Then I am paid;
And to the manner born, it is a custom
very rogues, now they be out of service.
My father and my grandfather were kings,
He hath a great infection, sir, as one would say, to serve--
My dukedom of thee, which perforce, I know,
Enter PHILOTUS
Have seal'd thy full desire.
Augment, or alter, as your wisdoms best
In our not-fearing Britain than have tidings
Than love that would seem hid: love's night is noon.
On this side my hand, and on that side yours.
Ceres, most bounteous lady, thy rich leas
The same upon your finger.
Than a delightful measure or a dance;
to be got now-a-days, unless thou canst fish for't.
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
He hopes 'bove wisdom, grace and fear:
Rive your concealing continents, and cry
Power as he was a counsellor to try him,
Come, sir;
The tribunes hear you not; no man is by;
Ay, be so, good Touchstone.
As all think, for this business.
I have as much of this in art as you,
That keep the word of promise to our ear,
All fancy-sick she is and pale of cheer,
Exempt from envy, but not from disdain,
Will you hear me, Roderigo?
And on it have bestow'd more contrite tears
Even so. Poor men alone? No, no; the noblest deer
I may be consul.
Such factious emulations shall arise!
No, my good lord; but Pluto sends you word,
Cut off the proud'st conspirator that lives.
Exeunt
That he, our hope, might have retired his power,
To doom the offenders, whatsoever they be
I'll be a candle-holder, and look on.
And never yet could frame my will to it;
Exeunt, leading KATHARINE
Exeunt
Ay, ay, a scratch, a scratch; marry, 'tis enough.
And gape at widest to glut him.
And I, in such a desperate bay of death,
This shall determine that.
flow like the sea, being governed, as the sea is,
I stay but for my guidon: to the field!
Since that my beauty cannot please his eye,
To cast thy wandering eyes on every stale,
beguile Nature of her custom, so perfectly he is her
Show!
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  Why, Enobarbus,
Till Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane,
The fault's your own.
Renowned for their deeds as far from home,
Amen.
Make way, unruly woman!
Nought's had, all's spent,
I see these witches are afraid of swords.
What meanest thou?
charity to my wit: do not think it so unwholesome.
them talk of a fardel and I know not what: but he
Perchance he is not drown'd: what think you, sailors?
Held me in chase, that I was forced to wheel
Welcome, indeed! By Venus' hand I swear,
Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds,
Mirth cannot move a soul in agony.
And of the paste a coffin I will rear
How her acquaintance grew with this lewd fellow.
Her welcome friendly.
of young Master Launcelot?
And yet, when wit and youth is come to harvest,
Our pastimes done, possess a golden slumber;
That I would all my pilgrimage dilate,
Who when they were in health, I tell thee, herald,
Forthlight the tilter, and brave Master Shooty the
And when they show'd me this abhorred pit,
And, see, a book of prayer in his hand,
I do beseech you, madam, be content.
Making not reservation of yourselves,
And stand between her back, sir, and the fire,
Why, then, 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
Poor drunkard!
Are angels vailing clouds, or roses blown.
Exeunt
Come, come, come.
churchmen, Master Page, we have some salt of our
You'll not confess, you'll not confess.
sixpence in earnest of the bear-ward, and lead his
Some Roman courtezan.
Made louder by the o'er-fed breast
The guard, ho! O, dispatch me!
There on the ground, with his own tears made drunk.
places stops the mouth of all find-faults; as I will
At Ravenspurgh.
Well met, my lord; I am glad to see your honour.
Vanquish my staider senses. What's the matter?
When they are thirsty, fools would fain have drink.
Nor bite the lip, as angry wenches will,
Laid them before you; you would throw them off,
I here confess myself the king of Tyre;
Who is the second that presents himself?
Without impeachment: for, to say the sooth,
To scourge you for this apprehension:
both sides. Farewell: yet for the love I bear my
Thy head is as fun of quarrels as an egg is full of
To me the difference forges dread; your greatness
I'll not be long behind; though I be old,
But, I pray you, let none of your people stir me: I
Who alone suffers suffers most i' the mind,
From whence this present day he is deliver'd?
Well; more anon.--Comes the king forth, I pray you?
With furbish'd arms and new supplies of men
Exit
things; and, to conclude, they are lying knaves.
Is he of God's making? What manner of man? Is his
With promise of high pay and great rewards:
And I am come to seek that name in England;
I may not go in without your worship: they will not
My fleet hath yielded to the foe; and yonder
am no honest man if there be any good meaning
Have made thee fear'd and honour'd of the people:
Of all the gentry: there is Siward's son,
Exeunt Worthies
Portia, what mean you? wherefore rise you now?
Nor let my kingdom's rivers take their course
An army have I muster'd in my thoughts,
Why didst thou stoop, then?
have fortunes coming upon you. Mark me: you must
soul, alive or dead?
Their sweetest shade a grove of cypress trees!
I do beseech you, sir,
I need not tell him that; he knows you are too diligent.
Not separated with the racking clouds,
The smallest fear or doubt of her revolt;
To put an antic disposition on,
Let me unseal the letter.
the windy side of care. My cousin tells him in his
I'll grow less; for I'll purge, and leave sack, and
Gratiano!
Gentlemen, there's some of worth would come aboard;
To save her life, I'll say she is not so.
Montague, Montague, for Lancaster!
Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!
So, now prosperity begins to mellow
And I'll repair the misery thou dost bear
Thou mayst revenge. O slave!
And too soon marr'd are those so early made.
Ay, forsooth; and, I pray, how does good Mistress Anne?
And not as our confusion, all thy powers
I am not Cinna the conspirator.
One minded like the weather, most unquietly.
Lucentio, gentle sir.
Be you content: good Cinna, take this paper,
Is three long hours, yet she is not come.
I did appoint?
Fulvia thy wife first came into the field.
Madam, his majesty doth call for you,
Foul fiend of France, and hag of all despite,
May know if you remain upon this island;
'When from my finger you can get this ring
Even to a full disgrace. Best of my flesh,
Thou hast contrived against the very life
Yet if thy thoughts, Bianca, be so humble
Before my perfect honour, swore to Cymbeline
than any the rarest of our ladies in France.
It is too late.
I have with exact view perused thee, Hector,
The crest of youth against your dignity.
Opening a letter
Sevenfold above itself; no gift to him,
Though to no use but still to look on you!
your worship shall know by this honest old man; and,
Thou hast affected the fine strains of honour,
The undoing of yourself: let the world see
Niggard of question; but, of our demands,
Alarum and retreat. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD, MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and Soldiers
And made a preachment of your high descent?
She do defeat us; for her life in Rome
Therefore love moderately; long love doth so;
Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it
You have defended me from imminent death.
fall to: if you can mock a leek, you can eat a leek.
Cry within
acquaintance, I will be point-devise the very man.
And cry 'Your will?' Have you no ears? I am
As I have made ye one, lords, one remain;
I should have fatted all the region kites
Exit
In these to nature she's immediate heir,
And I will answer unpremeditated:
man in Athens.
And hold their level with thy princely heart?
It is, indeed: if you will have it in showing, you
Who calls?
Speak what we feel, not what we ought to say.
O wherefore, Nature, didst thou lions frame?
and so dance out the answer. For, hear me, Hero:
SCENE VI. Windsor castle.
Make way there for the princess.
Enter a Lord
Welcome, sir.
From the two parties, forsooth.
Yet still she is the moon, and I the man.
Sovereign and pious else, could speak thee out,
Why, he drinks you, with facility, your Dane dead
With Henry's death the English circle ends;
With the whole quality wherefore: I fear
But that my master is abused:
Her brother's ghost his paved bed would break,
can do you little harm; you'll forswear this again.
It is here, Hamlet: Hamlet, thou art slain;
Why will he not upon our fair request
O blessed heavens!
Compact with her that's gone, think'st thou thy oaths,
Lolling the tongue with slaughtering, having work
If that the injuries be justly weigh'd
To gain the timely inn; and near approaches
For thou must now know farther.
Than ever frown in Greece. By Jove himself!
And, Henry, hadst thou sway'd as kings should do,
I have not sounded him, nor he deliver'd
Upon the country where you make abode;
As to rejoice at friends but newly found.
whereupon, after a little amazedness, we were all
Must find love's prick and Rosalind.
Sir, but you shall come to it, by your honour's
clerks, I'll give thee this neck.
Something from Cyprus as I may divine:
should have play for lack of work. Would, for the
for thee; let me have thy voice in my behalf: if
In Brittany, received intelligence
me.
But I hope your lordship thinks not him a soldier.
As Hercules
So, trouble me no more, but get you gone.
The land is burning; Percy stands on high;
Provokes me to this threefold perjury;
In thee't had been good service. Thou must know,
The powers that he already hath in Gallia
It is an attribute to God himself;
Yield not thy neck
our trade, and are now 'for the Lord's sake.'
If I would say, 'Agrippa, be it so,'
This late dissension grown betwixt the peers
My lord, we will not.
As my ripe revenue and due by birth
So just is God, to right the innocent.
steward, that stole his master's daughter.
How! have they denied him?
More can I bear than you dare execute.
Thou rascal beadle, hold thy bloody hand!
Whether our kinsman come to see his friends.
dangerous flat and fatal, where the carcasses of many
The last true duties of thy noble son!
Your lordship speaks your pleasure.
Yes, if I make my play.
I lay up thy lips.
You wrought to be a legate; by which power
with my face? You are now out of your text: but
Beneath abhorring. What would you have, you curs,
But you shall do no harm.
like the brooch and the tooth-pick, which wear not
Wrong not yourself, then, noble Helicane;
Why have you suffer'd me to be imprison'd,
to a husband we set his youngest free for a husband,
Banish your dotage; banish usury,
[Aside to GREGORY]  Is the law of our side, if I say
False allegations to o'erthrow his state?
Since lowly feigning was call'd compliment:
is not a buff jerkin a most sweet robe of durance?
Once this,--your long experience of her wisdom,
My heart is heavy and mine age is weak;
Marry, sir, we'll bring you to Windsor, to one
My true Paulina,
Do, with like timorous accent and dire yell
Showing the bracelet
Exeunt
I will do so.
I'll do the service of a younger man
And useth it to patronage his theft.
We need no grave to bury honesty:
Pure Dian, bless thee for thy vision! I
Exit
Faith, I saw it not; but I felt it hot in her breath.
Drinks
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England,
And till she stoop she must not be full-gorged,
If your leisure served, I would speak with you.
after gift; smelling so sweetly, all musk, and so
I see them lording it in London streets,
So in his red blood Cassius' day is set;
Faith, I know not what to say.
But believe you this, my lord, that, not long ago,
likelihood than to see me at her chamber-window,
ACT IV
Titania waked and straightway loved an ass.
That it would please thee leave these sad designs
She is.
And go to't with delight.
More than three hours the fight continued;
As I was banish'd, I was banish'd Hereford;
This night you shall behold him at our feast;
Smile to't before; if winterly, thou need'st
What it is worth embraced.
Can heaven be so envious?
When with his Amazonian chin he drove
Believe not that the dribbling dart of love
About the marriage of the Lady Bona.
For my great suit so easily obtain'd.
You shall not only take the sacrament
As fool and fight is, beside forfeiting
Is utterly bereft you; all is lost.
Yearly three thousand pounds, which by thee lately
Exit RODERIGO
Your eldest daughters have fordone them selves,
time to recover.
Farewell the plumed troop, and the big wars,
And I will strive with things impossible;
My noble queen, let former grudges pass,
SCENE II. A court of Justice.
He be convented. He's a rank weed, Sir Thomas,
I feel too much thy blessing: make it less,
His days may finish ere that hapless time.
And I will follow, more to cross that love
These weeds are memories of those worser hours:
That go before it.
leave your gaping.
To take our brother Clarence to your grace.
I never had to do with wicked spirits:
Exeunt
If not: we'll make you sit and rifle you.
Spit, and throw stone s, cast mire upon me, set
one;
Now, brother king, farewell, and sit you fast,
Locking the door
No matter, since
As I perceived it, I must tell you that,
May speak unbonneted to as proud a fortune
I'll use you for my mirth, yea, for my laughter,
May readily be stopp'd.
Except this city now by us besieged,
That fair Queen Isabel, his grandmother,
This calf bred from his cow from all the world;
Pursue each other, or shall be divided
Pulls off the friar's hood, and discovers DUKE VINCENTIO
After that things are set in order here,
Stigmatical in making, worse in mind.
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
Be brief, I pray you:
And prince shall follow with a fresh supply.
Transformed with their fear; who swore they saw
As gentle and as jocund as to jest
And, aroint thee, witch, aroint thee!
To raise my fortunes. Thou old unhappy traitor,
Enter ANTONY
May make it probable need.
surely! O that I were a man for his sake! or that I
With 'Thanks, my countrymen, my loving friends;'
O judgment! thou art fled to brutish beasts,
As far from help as Limbo is from bliss!
His givings-out were of an infinite distance
You meet in some fresh cheek the power of fancy,
Up higher to the plain; where we'll set forth
The Lady Beatrice hath a quarrel to you: the
I'll point you where you shall have such receiving
So.
Exeunt all but ANTONY
Ha, ha!
That seeming to be most which we indeed least are.
But in it shares some woe; though the main part
And make them skirr away, as swift as stones
Exeunt
Yes, madam, fair.
Above an hour, my lord.
Feather of lead, bright smoke, cold fire,
To ratify the work--we may again
That in their sleeps will mutter their affairs:
I spy life peering; but I dare not say
The heir of Cymbeline and Britain, who
I see thy fury: if I longer stay,
SCENE IV. Rome. Philario's house.
A league between his highness and Ferrara.
I have received a hurt: follow me, lady.
My liege, the Duke of Buckingham is taken;
Or from the all that are took something good,
No drop but as a coach doth carry thee;
Good news, good news; the ladies have prevail'd,
Not so, not so;
Whether your grace be worthy, yea or no,
Ha?
On this fair corse; and, as the custom is,
Where art thou, proud Demetrius? speak thou now.
every man put himself into triumph; some to dance,
'Tis strange my Theseus, that these
Valuing of her,--why, she, O, she is fallen
Exeunt
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
I'll haunt thee like a wicked conscience still,
I fear the power of Percy is too weak
For Valentine myself, for Julia Silvia.
Nay, not so neither: but I take him to be the
I shall attend you presently at your tent.
Go, Eros, send his treasure after; do it;
O madam, yonder's my lord your son with a patch of
I know not what the success will be, my lord; but
For the contempt of empire.
I will anon: first, let us go to dinner.
To have you royally appointed as if
And joy comes well in such a needy time:
From off the head of this Athenian swain;
At large discoursed in this paper here.
How now, Fluellen! camest thou from the bridge?
How goes the world, sir, now?
Of what validity and pitch soe'er,
If to either, thou dost ill.
I give to baser life. So; have you done?
I throw thy name against the bruising stones,
I am happily come hither.
fortune, by the saint whom I profess, I will plead
Where I did lodge last night. Do not laugh at me;
Ruminat,--and so forth. Ah, good old Mantuan! I
The rush that lies before him; cries, 'Fool Lepidus!'
Having neither subject, wealth, nor diadem.
did come to his hands, and commands shall be
Who, falling there to find his fellow forth,
and she sent over of the King of England's own
Yea, man and birds are fain of climbing high.
Thou fond mad man, hear me but speak a word.
Writes
with comforts,
This is Othello's ancient, as I take it.
Speak, gentle sister, who hath martyr'd thee?
For yet is hope of life and victory.
Grief would have tears, and sorrow bids me speak.
Both which I have had: but their date is out, and
O damn'd Iago! O inhuman dog!
To taste of thy most worst? Thy tyranny
Who dares not stir by day must walk by night,
I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son,
English tailor come hither, for stealing out of
He was from thence discharged. Sir, call to mind
Or else you use not. You look pale and gaze
What torment I did find thee in; thy groans
In this day's council; but we'll take to-morrow.
in Warwickshire? My good Lord of Westmoreland, I
So weary with disasters, tugg'd with fortune,
For that I heard the clink and fall of swords,
When holy Harry died, and my sweet son.
me see't! I'll in, I'll in. Follow your friend's
And venture maidenhead for't; and so would you,
am king of England, I shall command all the good
But his evasion, wing'd thus swift with scorn,
Is't not a kind of incest, to take life
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but EXETER
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.
Ten, my lord.
'Tis not her glass, but you, that flatters her;
I'll beat him, by my life, if I can meet him with
defend my wiles; upon my secrecy, to defend mine
thy fury! Shall the elephant Ajax carry it thus? He
Are  you mankind?
That hath authority over him that swears:
We'll bring your grace e'en to the edge o' the shore,
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit!
In the wars; and that may you be bold to say in your foolery.
Shall, whiles thy head is warm and new cut off,
Yours, Cinna; and, my valiant Casca, yours;
Enter LEONTES, with ANTIGONUS, Lords and others
It to be stirr'd; but oft have hinder'd, oft,
Enter PISANIO
What, this?
he were here, I would cudgel him like a dog, if he
O, she is lame! love's heralds should be thoughts,
May live at peace. He shall conceal it
And, by all likelihood, some cheer is toward.
Yes, lion-sick, sick of proud heart: you may call it
rest of your fees, O gods--the senators of Athens,
Whom we invite to see us crown'd at Scone.
Lewis, determine what we shall do straight.
With musics of all sorts and songs composed
Can you not see? or will ye not observe
Than with that hand that cut thy youth in twain
Wherefore was that cry?
I mentioned a son o' the king's, which Florizel
To Valentinus, Rowland, and to Crassus,
How, how, pray you? You amaze me: I would have I
Welsh devil Hugh?
that thou wilt not be drunk; but I know thou art no
She will not quench and let instructions enter
And, if you may confess it, say withal,
Thy face is mine, and thou hast slander'd it.
O, look, sir, look, sir! here is more of us:
I would you did but see how it chafes, how it rages,
And must be made a subject to a duke?
They clepe us drunkards, and with swinish phrase
that I love thee. I will not say, pity me; 'tis
Acordo linta.
Thrice-worthy gentleman!
We prove this very hour.
And bears his thoughts above his falcon's pitch.
Alarum. Drums and trumpets. Enter AGRIPPA and others
That he approves the common liar, who
O, he sits high in all the people's hearts:
Your legs are young; I'll tread these flats. Consider,
I may have welcome 'mongst the rest that woo
A better wife, let him in nought be trusted,
will hack; and so thou shouldst not alter the
O, from Italy
I be not found a talker.
Than to be sure they do; for certainties
Whom thou hast poison'd too:
broke them in the sweet face of heaven: one that
Came to this vault to die, and lie with Juliet.
About my moneys and my usances:
Indeed, sir, if your metaphor stink, I will stop my
One only daughter have I, no kin else,
The French king's sister. Heaven will one day open
duke's brother.
There's the moral. Now the l'envoy.
And from a mouth of honour quite cry down
O, 'tis a burthen, Cromwell, 'tis a burthen
What hour is it?
Pack'd cards with Caesar, and false-play'd my glory
Enter SPEED
The man that hath no music in himself,
Without a sudden calm, will overset
A thousand thousand!
Exit BASTARD OF ORLEANS
If I be traitor or unjustly fight!
This is strange to me.
Tending to Caesar's glories; which Mark Antony,
Achieve the elder, set the younger free
And hearten those that fight in your defence:
Of whom your swords are temper'd, may as well
Infected be the air whereon they ride;
And all the priests and friars in my realm
I love the sport well but I shall as soon quarrel at
Like to the empty ass, to shake his ears,
Which makes my whitest part black. The will of heaven
The concernancy, sir? why do we wrap the gentleman
Never's my day, and then a kiss of you.
When I did first impart my love to you,
He that ears my land spares my team and gives me
None, but such remedy as, to save a head,
I will not taint my mouth with.
But not one follower.
From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports. Let
Why then, God's soldier be he!
Casca, you are the first that rears your hand.
But graciously to know I am no better.
And that my path were even to the crown,
Of it own colour too.
In brief, sir, study what you most affect.
Well shone, Moon. Truly, the moon shines with a
And like a mountain, not to be removed.
Good sir, to the purpose.
the fool not dry: bid the dishonest man mend
Since my young lady's going into France, sir, the
My daughter might have been: my queen's square brows;
But buckle with thee blows, twice two for one.
The courses of his youth promised it not.
The taste whereof, God of his mercy give
in the city? are they so followed?
May read strange matters. To beguile the time,
Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war
Thou dost miscall retire:
No, no, good night: I'll be your fool no more.
for yours.
cure of it not only saves your brother, but keeps
Your honour with your form.
The boy replied, 'An angel is not evil;
That basely fled when noble Talbot stood.
With them, the two brave bears, Warwick and Montague,
Now, Mars, I prithee, make us quick in work,
So well, nothing so well; no, nor mean better:
That have on both sides pass'd.
To smooth his fault I should have been more mild:
Remember, William; focative is caret.
There lurks a still and dumb-discoursive devil
Over the nasty sty,--
I thought you lord of more true gentleness.
all power from the people and to pluck from them
HERO swoons
But let determined things to destiny
For, look you, I may make the belly smile
Ay, my good lord.
Why, so I did; but look'd for no reply.
And meaner than myself have had like fortune.
deceiving promises of life; which I by my good
Upon this coast, I warrant you.
Ere thou relieve the beggar; give to dogs
Pray thee, marry us.
Exeunt DUKE OF VENICE, Senators, Officers,  and c
There shall the pairs of faithful lovers be
In yonder tower, to overpeer the city,
Your right depends not on his life or death.
When Helen is defended, nor none so noble
stand him but a little, he will throw a figure in
When that rash humour which my mother gave me
And, as I am an honest Puck,
me to ridiculous smiling. O, pardon me, my stars!
And bring AEneas and the Grecian with you.
Such dreadful heralds to astonish us.
Some wine, ho!
It may be so, my lord.
Which I do well; for I am sure the emperor
ancient; this is my right hand, and this is my left:
Where is Malvolio? he is sad and civil,
I sometime lay here in Corioli
For never yet one hour in his bed
The best-condition'd and unwearied spirit
Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood,
Live in thy tongue and heart: old Escalus,
Then be your eyes the witness of this ill:
Then this remains, that we divide our power.
My master, my dear lord he is; and I
I would learn that; for, by the
I know his eye doth homage otherwhere,
No, hath not? Rosalind lacks then the love
He wrought better that made the painter; and yet
thee, I have been blown out of your gates with
of all treasons, we still see them reveal
knave; that's, before me thou'rt a knave: this had
As on the other side it takes from you.
I have not kept my square; but that to come
talk of his horse; and he makes it a great
Or blood-consuming sighs recall his life,
Lies he not bed-rid? and again does nothing
That mightst have had the sole son of my queen!
What shall be done, sir, with the groaning Juliet?
Of woeful ages long ago betid;
He that hath kill'd my king and whored my mother,
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
Became him like the leaving it; he died
And Brutus is an honourable man.
And so did I; and, to say the truth, so did very
I knew her by this jewel on her sleeve.
One, Richard Earl of Cambridge, and the second,
up--to a contaminated stale, such a one as Hero.
Not he that sets his foot upon her back.
friar. But no more of this. Canst thou tell if
To show his grief: let her be round with him;
Of an old tear that is not wash'd off yet:
And Titus Lartius, a most valiant Roman,
And I will do so.
Like the old tale, my lord: 'it is not so, nor
To see my tears and hear my deep-fet groans.
they deserve, the more merit is in your bounty.
You, the great toe of this assembly?
Enter TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, and CHIRON, disguised
Wherefore? wherefore?
me, 'As jealous as Ford, Chat searched a hollow
Yet he would be king on't.
In spending your wit in the praise of mine.
Wouldst thou have practised on me for thy use,
so that in the beastliest sense you are Pompey the
Get you with him, you old dog.
Exeunt STANLEY and CATESBY
To a strong mast that lived upon the sea;
So fair an outward and such stuff within
With thy religious truth and modesty,
For in Baptista's keep my treasure is:
I think he would not wish himself any where but
in all companies! I would have, as one should say,
Profaning this most honourable order,
Nor curstness grow to the matter.
My heart beats thicker than a feverous pulse;
Heigh-ho! an it be not four by the day, I'll be
The senators with one consent of love
His fault is much, and the good king his master
For thy good valour. Come thee on.
Then follow thou thy desperate sire of Crete,
qualities were level; Dian no queen of virgins, that
Be not too tame neither, but let your own discretion
wrangle in when you have nothing else to do.
It is but needful:
Woe the while!
I would to heaven I had your potency,
Cold, indeed; and labour lost:
Is, that his noble grace would have some pity
Ay, there's the villany.
A little of that worthy work perform'd
And gentle Longaville, where lies thy pain?
And we must sleep.
O, take his mother's thanks, a widow's thanks,
Ay, marry, what of these?
I pray you then, in love and dear alliance,
Of the extreme verge: for all beneath the moon
The means that dusky Dis my daughter got,
I'll give no blemish to her honour, none.
Have I not made you,
Two of them have the very bent of honour;
In love, I hope: sweet fellowship in shame!
It cannot be; it is impossible:
The other turns to a mirth-moving jest,
Speak, sirs; how was it?
not he be there again? In my house I am sure he is:
Labouring for nine.
Affection! pooh! you speak like a green girl,
lying: it becomes none but tradesmen, and they
O sweet Maria, empress of my love!
That will forsake thee and go home in peace.
Exeunt
O my dear mother, do I see you living?
And pray your mother's blessing. Turn, good lady;
Beat down Alencon, Orleans, Burgundy,
Where had you this pretty weather-cock?
Setting it up to fear the birds of prey,
As I have read, laid claim unto the crown;
We will require her welcome.
and buck-baskets! Well, I will proclaim myself
Your daughter and her cousin much commend
Hear ye, Yedward; if I tarry at home and go not,
Most sweet Hercules! More authority, dear boy, name
What, is it a time to jest and dally now?
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
Lest you mistake the heavens are o'er our heads.
Makes me the bolder to salute my king
Sir, you speak nobly.
raised the wall and houses too.
Threw him ashore, to give him glad:
Ursula, bring my picture here.
Hit with Cupid's archery,
We are the greater poll, and in true fear
By this device.
I am perfect what: cut off one Cloten's head,
Bade me enjoy it, with the place and honours,
Till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart,
For certain, sir, he is not: I have a file
But tickles still the sore.
sir, an ill-favoured thing, sir, but mine own; a poor
Show minutes, times, and hours: but my time
Each part, deprived of supple government,
is a little variations.
Truly, for mine own part, I would little or nothing
For in my gallery thy picture hangs:
you pick a quarrel to beguile me of it: I bought
to the yielding, had I admittance and opportunity to friend.
That, all-amazed, the priest let fall the book;
Follow, my lord, and I'll soon bring her back.
Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this
You took occasion to be quickly woo'd
Whose nature sickens but to speak a truth.
Who, then, dares to be half so kind again?
Thou shouldest strike him.
Now, thieves?
Exit
She may help you to many fair preferments,
Spotted, detested, and abominable.
He says, my lord, your daughter is not well.
I beseech you, sir, ask him what this man did to my wife.
Exit
The gates shut on me, and turn'd weeping out,
In our opinions she should be preferr'd.
commendation is not in his wit, but in his villany;
Affection is not rated from the heart:
It is young Orlando, that tripped up the wrestler's
In second accent of his ordnance.
For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar's angel:
Of no more force to dispossess me, sir,
Kate, my wooing is fit for thy understanding: I am
Get him to bed, and let his hurt be look'd to.
O, mickle is the powerful grace that lies
extenuated, wherein he was worthy, nor his offences
To make his bleak winds kiss my parched lips
Poor Bassianus here lies murdered.
What is the matter?
Exeunt
Mount you, my lord; towards Berwick post amain:
Five year! by'r lady, a long lease for the clinking
You are welcome, sir, to Cyprus.--Goats and monkeys!
I pray you, speak not; he grows worse and worse;
Rise, prithee, rise.
words may quickly make them wanton.
I will be assured I may; and, that I may be assured,
a brown favour--for so 'tis, I must confess,--
So much as from occasion you may glean,
La main, de hand; les doigts, de fingres. Je pense
Talks as familiarly of roaring lions
And in the towns, as they do march along,
matter. How does your ladyship like it?
I hope it be not gone to tell my lord
They have tied me to a stake; I cannot fly,
Nay, be not angry; I am pleased again.
That honourable grief lodged here which burns
I'll let his humours blood.
As dear to me as are the ruddy drops
As thou hast made me by my dear lord's death!
Peace, sirrah!
I answer you! what should I answer you?
[Reads]  'which, as I remember, hight Costard,'--
Of the self-same metal that my sister is,
All the particulars of vice so grafted
De nick. Et le menton?
I fear me, lords, for all this flattering gloss,
That they may hold excus'd our lawless lives;
For scorn at first makes after-love the more.
Where are the vile beginners of this fray?
And, pretty child, sleep doubtless and secure,
Then is courtesy a turncoat. But it is certain I
Durst I have done my will. O Cassius,
Enter POINS
But, woe the while! our fathers' minds are dead,
What do ye talk?
The duke was dumb and could not speak a word.
How long is't since?
thy voyage, lose thy master, and, in losing thy
King Henry, be thy title right or wrong,
equivocal companion is this!
[To KENT]  Prithee, tell him, so much the rent of
Sir--I thank her--that:
Of Hereford, Stafford, and Northampton, I
Exit
Than boys pursuing summer butterflies,
Othello, leave some officer behind,
I have too much believed mine own suspicion:
Monster, lay-to your fingers: help to bear this
What, resists he? Help him, Lucio.
The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
Art not afeard?
I will, my lord; I pray you, pardon me.
And never see day that the happy sees,
So happy is your brother.
Richard, that robb'd the lion of his heart
Five and twenty, sir.
Day, yield me not thy light; nor, night, thy rest!
To give them this discomfort? Look, they weep;
Either that is thine, or else thou wert not his.
Springs not from Edward's well-meant honest love,
to the wall.
Madam, yourself are not exempt in this,
To give this poor petition to the king,
Except the marshal and such officers
And bears with glasses, elephants with holes,
SCENE II: Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
I'll tell you, sir, in private, if you please
Sir, your pennyworth is good, an your goose be fat.
Peace and prosperity! Who is't that calls
And if you break the ice and do this feat,
out by that?
Into the abysm of hell. If he mislike
How now, my lady the hostess! what sayest thou to
And as he saith, so say we all with him.
Were it not that my fellow-school-master
If it might please ye,--
And in our sports my better cunning faints
But I, that am not shaped for sportive tricks,
Like monsters of the deep.
jewels, I will give over my suit and repent my
He was a king bless'd of the King of kings.
And Henry but usurps the diadem.
this month, you shall nose him as you go up the
Nay, I have done.
I tell thee, lady, this aspect of mine
What, is Lavinia then become so loose,
Because my power is weak and all ill left:
I am ambitious for a motley coat.
Good as the best. Promising is the very air o' the
in Thisbe's garter, it would have been a fine
Alas, I look'd when some of you should say,
But rather drowzed and hung their eyelids down,
As if he were his officer: desperation
the statutes, he may stay him: marry, not without
may drink thy tidings.
Her aid she promised and assured success:
To take is not to give.
They play
At least we'll die with harness on our back.
that I may say in the default, he is a man I know.
Your quondam wife swears still by Venus' glove:
What further you will do.
Must cover thy sweet eyes.
other course you please, which the time shall more
That we may do it still without accompt.
O, let him marry her.
Enter LEONTES, CLEOMENES, DION, PAULINA, and Servants
'Twas told me you were rough and coy and sullen,
[Aside]  To be whipped; and yet a better love than
To beggarly divorcement--love him dearly,
To present your highness with the man.
I' faith, I fear it has.
Or art thou base, common and popular?
And liegemen to the Dane.
DON
He is a soldier fit to stand by Caesar
In different pleasures. Pray you, let us in.
If this should ever happen, thou wouldst be horn-mad.
She hath but one for herself; to desire that were a shame.
Upon thy words, that kill mine eye and heart!
Give me your hand: you are now within a foot
Is he among these?
The best way is to slander Valentine
That are recorded in this schedule here:
Do curse the gout, serpigo, and the rheum,
Disarm them, and let them question: let them keep
the sea, hold notwithstanding their freshness and
And our induction full of prosperous hope.
What says the golden chest? ha! let me see:
Shout within
To dare the vile contagion of the night
And here, in sight of heaven, to Rome I swear,
Come, 'tis no matter:
What say you, Hermia? be advised fair maid:
What is your title?
honestly by the prick of their needles, but it will
I never knew man hold vile stuff so dear.
Go thou away:
The queen from France hath brought a puissant power:
He has some reason, else he could not beg.
Our just and lineal entrance to our own;
Ladies, a general welcome from his grace
I moralize two meanings in one word.
Thou talk'st of nothing.
For sure, he fills it up with great ability,
So soon as you arrive, shall clear that doubt.
Come, brother, let us to the highest of the field,
Disgrace and horror, that, on my command,
An old thing 'twas, but it express'd her fortune,
With every joint a wound, and that to-morrow!
Who, Monsieur Veroles?
They are at hand, and you shall quickly know.
What is't, knave?
Alas! for whose sake did I that ill deed?
Enter PRINCE, with Attendants
The history of all her secret thoughts:
When from St. Alban's we do make return,
My own knee! when I was about thy years, Hal, I was
You put our page out: go, you are allow'd;
The sides o' the world may danger: much is breeding,
Who are the votaries, my loving lords,
Pardon me, Caius Cassius:
The former agents, if they did complain,
But thou didst understand me by my signs
Yield: come before my father. Light, ho, here!
What Cressid is, what Pandar, and what we?
Enter AENEAS, PARIS, ANTENOR, DEIPHOBUS, and DIOMEDES
May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet.
world! One that is well-nigh worn to pieces with
No, heaven so speed me in my time to come!
Exeunt
For, well you know, this is a pitiful case.
My ever-gentle cousin, welcome hither.
I think Alexander the Great was born in Macedon; his
Here's yet some liquor left.
Never did faithful subject more rejoice
And this is Trojan; the sinews of this leg
What I have been I have forgot to know;
The angry lords with all expedient haste.
him again? Answer me in one word.
Winner and loser?
Give it the captain.
I am known to be a humorous patrician, and one that
Quail, crush, conclude, and quell!
What are you, sir?
These happy masks that kiss fair ladies' brows
I will stand to and feed,
Poison'd,--ill fare--dead, forsook, cast off:
Shalt see thy other daughter will use thee kindly;
The water of my land, find her disease,
Like one besotted on your sweet delights:
They converse apart
Exit an Attendant
Save thee, Timon.
home; there's part of a power already footed: we
Signior Hortensio, 'twixt such friends as we
If it were yours by none of all these ways,
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more;
What he might be: if what he might he is not,
Enter OTHELLO and IAGO
Made him a man; and though thou livest and breathest,
Why, horns, which such as you are fain to be
That never relish'd of a base descent.
I crave your highness' pardon.
unless his teeth be pulled out.
To sleep by hate, and fear no enmity?
of thy body that I am father to, then call me
Encounter such revolt.
Their perch and not their terror.
I am betroth'd: and art thou not ashamed
And afterward by substitute betroth'd
Whose was it?
Upon thy feature; for my rage was blind,
Endured of her, for whom you bid like sorrow.
Each syllable that breath made up between them.
That most may claim this argument for ours?
SCENE I. A wood near Athens.
You'll make a mutiny among my guests!
How hast thou purchased this experience?
Where is our usual manager of mirth?
indeed he was mad for her, and talked of Satan and
He is no less than what we say he is.
In one respect I'll thy assistant be;
Thus to retort your manifest appeal,
Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know
The pardon that I late pronounced here.
What is your difference? speak.
Nightly shall be to strew thy grave and weep.
of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy: he hath
My heart assures me that the Earl of Warwick
Flourish. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN, LENNOX, and Attendants
Where lies he?
Speak freely, Syracusian, what thou wilt.
the time of the day.
Ay, and you shall live in pleasure.
March to the bridge; it now draws toward night:
Faith, I have been a truant in the law,
Then let him be denay'd the regentship.
Cannot once start me.
Our tongue is rough, coz, and my condition is not
Why, he is very young: and yet will he, within
In emerald tufts, flowers purple, blue and white;
In the restoring his bereaved sense?
Enter DUKE OF AUMERLE
And fertile every wish, a million.
Nay, but be wise: yet we see nothing done;
Over-roasted rather; ready long ago.
We are yet but young in deed.
SCENE II. A street.
And do not say 'tis superstition, that
But keep our course, though the rough wind say no,
I mean, I walked upon: it is y-cleped thy park. Then
Stanley, he is your wife's son well, look to it.
thee a steward still, the fellow of servants, and
To bless the bed of majesty again
Exit Servant
Walk aside the true folk, and let the traitors stay.
Go thou with them; and in the emperor's court
We will turn it finely off, sir; we will take
Shallow, and another gentleman, from Frogmore, over
Sith I have cause and will and strength and means
Of censuring Rome? Rather a ditch in Egypt
With us in Venice, if it be denied,
And each of them had twenty times their power,
To plead your cause: it shall be therefore bootless
Iden, kneel down.
Canst thou catch any fishes, then?
place as I would they should do theirs, to for my
Well then, alone, since there's no remedy,
The more that Henry was unfortunate.
I have not slept.
So hot a speed with such advice disposed,
Indeed, I never shall be satisfied
Say, Henry, shall I have my right, or no?
good fire. But, sure, he is the prince of the
lordship anon.
My lord, the mind of Bolingbroke is changed:
That such immanity and bloody strife
I greatly fear my money is not safe.
So let it be with Caesar. The noble Brutus
What if her eyes were there, they in her head?
Perchance! nay, and most like:
In pruning me? When shall you hear that I
In honourable terms: nay, he can sing
I understand thy kisses and thou mine,
So, so: farewell; we are gone.
I am not prone to weeping, as our sex
A stony adversary, an inhuman wretch
My present fancies.
let thy tongue tang with arguments of state; put
That which I owe is lost; but if you please
The region of my breast; which forced such way,
Though you in swearing shake the throned gods,
Ay, but I fear you speak upon the rack,
Is spied in populous cities.
Speak.
I prithee, let's be provided to show them
consider your music the better: if it do not, it is
That knew the stars as I his characters;
Drums and trumpets sound, with great shouts of the People
And I must be from thence!
When nature flamed this piece, she meant thee a good
For nought I did in hate, but all in honour.
Exeunt
Tune my distresses and record my woes.
This is the fruit of rashness! Mark'd you not
And, worthy warrior, welcome to our tents.
Pardon us, sir; with us at sea it hath been still
Should I lie, madam?
And have the money by our father lent
He vented them; most narrow measure lent me:
But she would spell him backward: if fair-faced,
Than this of Juliet and her Romeo.
knight that you brought in one night here to be her wooer.
Like to a dismal clangour heard from far,
But in my garments.
What say you to a piece of beef and mustard?
As time and our concernings shall importune,
For here I read for certain that my ships
What would you with her, if that I be she?
To be but named of thee. His meanest garment,
Why, I have lost him too.
His issue disinherited should be;
Shall stain your brother: make your soonest haste;
Have you forgot me?
Tell me, sirrah, but tell me true, I charge you,
Sir Walter Herbert, a renowned soldier;
She was a widow,--
But, mistress, know yourself: down on your knees,
As he in his particular act and place
Not true in love?
And, when it bows, stands up. Thou art left, Marcius:
As is deliver'd to your majesty:
God-a-mercy, Grumio! then he shall have no odds.
Although by his sight his sin be multiplied.
But do not go with it.
In their sweet bosoms, that never war advance
To have his princely paws pared all away:
Where is the fellow?
by the moon. As, for proof, now: a purse of gold
Exit ANNE PAGE
shorn. what comes the wool to?
We shall be much unwelcome.
When he wakes! why, fool, he shall never wake till
I nothing know where she remains, why gone,
Exit
And dead men's cries do fill the empty air,
I've seen myself, and served against, the French,
Then tell me, whither were I best to send him?
Another spread on's breast, mounting his eyes
To have his head.
Away with Slender and with him at Eton
'tis known I am a pretty piece of flesh.
Were they as prime as goats, as hot as monkeys,
If I thought that, I tell thee, homicide,
Thus much of this will make black white, foul fair,
Perform'd to your sole daughter.
Exeunt
[Within]  Hillo, ho, ho, my lord!
Enter a Messenger
When it is mingled with regards that stand
so determinate as the removing of Cassio.
but to the place where; it standeth north-north-east
Troilus! why, he esteems her no more than I esteem
How say you sir? Can you deny all this?
Have I not reason to prefer mine own?
That he's revengeful, and I know his sword
I'll try you on the shore.
And therefore I'll uncrown him ere't be long.'
Know then, my name is Douglas;
Be it so, Titus, and gramercy too.
very good, i' faith. I sent thee sixpence for thy
Who sues to thee and cries 'God save the queen'?
And, in despite, I'll cram thee with more food!
It is 'Adieu, adieu! remember me.'
Opposed, as it must be, by the power of the king:
were masters of their wealth. Mark now, how a plain
The office and devotion of their view
But none can drive him from the envious plea
Pray you, who does the wolf love?
And will not let belief take hold of him
a body, we have ten proofs to one that blood hath
Here comes the lady: O, so light a foot
And be a boy right out.
Had York and Somerset brought rescue in,
Leave wringing of your hands: peace! sit you down,
Speak, man.
Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
Yet this good comfort bring I to your grace,
You may so; 'tis the better for you that your
Five tribunes to defend their vulgar wisdoms,
weeping tears 'Wear these for my sake.' We that are
A kinder value of the people than
Of fair demesnes, youthful, and nobly train'd,
measure. To the rest: yet my chief humour is for a
So, I am satisfied. Give me a bowl of wine:
And all the faith, the virtue of my heart,
And yours it is against.
French earl: the honour of a maid is her name; and
Lies foul with chew'd grass, still and motionless;
as bad a kind, Achilles: and now is the cur Ajax
Is but the vain breath of a common man:
And stalk in blood to our possession?
Had nobles richer and more loyal subjects,
Videsne quis venit?
As if she sat in 's heart; she says all men
By breaking through the foul and ugly mists
This is All-Souls' day, fellows, is it not?
Enter Mariners
was hurt under your arm.
SCENE I. Rome. BRUTUS's orchard.
I will be hang'd, if some eternal villain,
Trojan!--now the sleeve, now the sleeve!
A lack, how may I do it, having the hour limited,
sure, hide himself in such reverence.
Excellent good, i' faith.
to purse-taking.
With Sir John Stanley, in the Isle of Man.
For he conjured her she should ever keep it,
To castigate thy pride, 'twere well: but thou
Then, I prithee, be merry; thy wit shall ne'er go
How do you, Cassio? O, a chair, a chair!
She says you have some goodly jest in hand:
Mum, then, and no more. Proceed.
Yet call the ambassador; and, as you please,
Is it not true, Master Page?
At any time 'fore noon.
shall do it.
neither savouring of poetry, wit, nor invention: I
Who, if he break, thou mayst with better face
If Caesar hide himself, shall they not whisper
O ho, Petruchio! Tranio hits you now.
Have nick'd his captainship; at such a point,
From all direction, purpose, course, intent:
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and MENENIUS
Sister, it is not a little I have to say of what
Re-enter MACDUFF, with MACBETH's head
Than I myself, poor man.
What is thy name, that in the battle thus
Then let her beauty be her wedding-dower;
I would say thou hadst suck'd wisdom from thy teat.
go, good Tubal; at our synagogue, Tubal.
come into any room in a tap-house, but I am drawn
civil and humane seeming, for the better compassing
To make this present summons: unsolicited
Young blood doth not obey an old decree:
he is enamoured on Hero; I pray you, dissuade him
Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
When I was got, sir Robert was away!
And most chirurgeonly.
Sit, worthy friends: my lord is often thus,
I know you are now, sir, a gentleman born.
Meet and ne'er part till one drop down a corse.
Moral! no, by my troth, I have no moral meaning; I
My sword is drawn.
When capital crimes, chew'd, swallow'd and digested,
What wouldst thou have with me?
Both from thy table, Henry, and thy bed,
A liberal rewarder of his friends:
What is about to be? I am out of breath;
now. Your date is better in your pie and your
How now, sweetheart! who's at home besides yourself?
How can we aid you with our kindred tears?
Well thought on: take my sword,
Attend your office and your quality.
Go; and we'll have a posset for't soon at night, in
Is't possible? Sits the wind in that corner?
Were publicly enthroned: at the feet sat
To come near.
Dost thou not suspect my place? dost thou not
To marry her, I'll add three thousand crowns
I hate it, and desire all good men's love.
Destroy our friends and after weep their dust
I think this upstart is old Talbot's ghost,
Such fierce alarums both of hope and fear,
Sir, I shall study deserving.
If Brutus so unkindly knock'd, or no;
One cried 'God bless us!' and 'Amen' the other;
Those clamorous harbingers of blood and death.
My lord, the king your father.
SCENE II. France. A royal palace.
I'll give you leave to powder me and eat me too
My sword should bite it: not the dreadful spout
You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
No jewel is like Rosalind.
Assured loss before the match be play'd.
wide of his own respect.
Were by the swords of common soldiers slain.
Cold friends to Richard: what do they in the north,
Exit
that
for my part, the sea cannot drown me; I swam, ere I
Enter LEONTES, POLIXENES, FLORIZEL, PERDITA, CAMILLO, PAULINA, Lords, and Attendants
Freedom lives hence, and banishment is here.
I not purpose it.
The commonwealth doth stand, and so would do,
Go I to fight: truth hath a quiet breast.
Too old by heaven: let still the woman take
If no inconstant toy, nor womanish fear,
That my master was? no, forsooth: my master said
Our horses!
For what is wedlock forced but a hell,
When nature brought him to the door of death?
appelez-vous le col?
And straight they shall be here: sit, and attend.
This battle fares like to the morning's war,
He waxes desperate with imagination.
Posthumus anchors upon Imogen,
off, and you are now sailed into the north of my
Come to me at your convenient leisure, and you shall
Our royal master 's murder'd!
nor I cannot woo in festival terms.
Come not in here, nuncle, here's a spirit
Than those that have more cunning to be strange.
forward to-night.
My lords, before it pleased his majesty
Must he needs die?
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Away, you fool! it more becomes a man
best grace of wit will shortly turn into silence,
The day is hot, the Capulets abroad,
That you shall stifle in your own report
For which attempt the judges have pronounced
Which he did end all his; and took some pride
Ay, and allay this thy abortive pride;
gives way to loyalty, something fears me to think
of grossness. He's in yellow stockings.
Persever in that clear way thou goest,
Exeunt, severally
Have misbecomed our oaths and gravities,
This man hath had good counsel:--a hundred knights!
Being a Volsce, be that I am. Condition!
A new hell in himself.
Shall I send to thee?
[Aside]  And so says York, for he hath greatest cause.
Welcome, you;--how now, you;-- what, you;--fellow,
The baby figure of the giant mass
On Mars's armour forged for proof eterne
Exeunt
Then whither goest? say, whither?
Ay, as the rocks cheer them that fear their wreck:
small kindnesses from him, as money, plate, jewels
Here's ado,
I prithee,
I protest I love the duke as I love myself.
Enter SERVILIUS
And left sweet Pyramus translated there:
Henry Lord Scroop of Masham.
Enter, below, MARK ANTONY, borne by the Guard
And wash away thy country's stained spots.
Exit
you should enter, if your trade be to her.
To any well-deserving friend;
Fulvia thy wife is dead.
To feeling as to sight? or art thou but
Lo thee!
For now they kill me with a living death.
As willingly as e'er I came from school.
Biron, read it over.
There is one Mistress Ford, sir:--I pray, come a
Here is the head of that ignoble traitor,
Owy, cuppele gorge, permafoy,
Valentine!
And the king gone to-night! subscribed his power!
We may, sir, if we will.
Caesar said to me 'Darest thou, Cassius, now
As thou unworthy to be call'd her servant.
He hopes by you his fortunes yet may flourish.
And yet wouldst wrongly win: thou'ldst have, great Glamis,
And you may marvel why I obscured myself,
In courtly company or at my beads,
And what may make him blush in being known,
Untouch'd, or slightly handled, in discourse
henned sparrow! 'loo, Paris, 'loo! The bull has the
SCENE III. Another room in the castle.
Inconstancy falls off ere it begins.
He did me kindness, sir, drew on my side;
Let me give light, but let me not be light;
trempling of mind! I shall be glad if he have
The business of this man looks out of him;
Come, sir, I will not let you go. Come, my young
How thus we met, and these things finish.
Ay, when? can'st tell? Lend me thy lantern, quoth
And in good time you gave it.
Mislike me not for my complexion,
it is not Anne Page: by gar, I am cozened.
not sprites.
To be call'd whore? would it not make one weep?
And hinder them from what this ecstasy
My life is run his compass. Sirrah, what news?
Enter ACHILLES and Myrmidons
Down with that sword! Tribunes, withdraw awhile.
Come, vial.
for, by gar, me vill have it.
How! my good name? or to report of you
Wringing her hands, whose whiteness so became them
three; for so I have promised, and I'll be as good
I that am cruel am yet merciful;
Bid her devise
It seems she hangs upon the cheek of night
To trust the opportunity of night
flesh and blood is my friend: ergo, he that kisses
He tells her something
For more than blushing comes to: if your back
[Aside]  And yet I must.--Bless thy sweet eyes, they bleed.
Jack Cade! Jack Cade!
Thoughts tending to ambition, they do plot
Enter a Messenger
So many weeks ere the poor fools will ean:
Buckingham, doth York intend no harm to us,
And go along with him!
Office and custom, in all line of order;
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
By what we do to-night.
Good words, Thersites.
to Angelo: if for this night he entreat you to his
Whose western side is with a vineyard back'd;
There's thy reward: be gone.
Were you sworn to the duke, or to the deputy?
And is not that your bondman, Dromio?
In token of which duty, if he please,
Thou loathed issue of thy father's loins!
corporal, be patient here. How now, mine host Pistol!
How now, Malvolio!
Now I behold thy lively body so?
Here, stand behind this bulk; straight will he come:
Noble lords,
You may do it in an hour, sir.
There is but one mind in all these men, and it is
To let the troop pass fairly; or I'll find
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
I am amazed, methinks, and lose my way
Suppose the ambassador from the French comes back;
Exeunt CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, PARIS, and FRIAR LAURENCE
If ever she leave Troilus! Time, force, and death,
By Roderigo and fellows that are scaped:
And straight disclaim their tongues? What are
To Milan let me hear from thee by letters
Or like an idle thresher with a flail,
And see whether Brutus be alive or dead;
No, my lord.
And have their palates both for sweet and sour,
I am glad on't: I desire no more delight
shall make it whole again; you shall piece it out
That would unseen be wicked? is this nothing?
I will come last. 'Tis like he'll question me
Which of you two did dine with me to-day?
A fiend, a fury, pitiless and rough;
That I may make his lordship understand
Spirit,
In a most weak--
Our mistress' sorrows we were pitying.
'twas for shift.
And comment then upon his sudden death.
Brought near to beast: my face I'll grime with filth;
We have been too slight in sufferance.
Exeunt CORIOLANUS, COMINIUS, and others
Come, bring us, bring us where he is.
To come abroad?
How now, lad! is the wind in that door, i' faith?
cleared of the dead.
should sing.
ye pinch me like a pasty, I can say no more.
Forbear the absence of your king:
To her, Kate!
Expound unto me, boy.
Who hath not seen them, even with those wings
Sir, shall I to this lady?
Do breed love's settled passions in my heart:
For thou hast done a charitable deed.
To tell sad stories of my own mishaps.
And fears by pale white shown:
I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good Aufidius,
A thousand pound a year, annual support,
Whose hand is that the forest bear doth lick?
Peruse the traders, gaze upon the buildings,
And won by rareness such solemnity.
And watch our vantage in this business:
To hear the solemn curfew; by whose aid,
By thinking on the frosty Caucasus?
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
He is as like thee as a man may be,
Teach thy necessity to reason thus;
The very tyranny and rage of his.
Will they not hear? What, ho! you men, you beasts,
Shall we not see these daughters and these sisters?
Enter the Ghost of Prince Edward, son to King Henry VI
For that good hand thou sent'st the emperor.
Grants scarce distinction. Thou wilt write to Antony!
knowledge be more it is much darkened in your malice.
creature in resemblance of the mother, the affection
What can from Italy annoy us; but
Then, grandam, you conclude that he is dead.
Which, by the right and virtue of my place,
Say, Henry King of England, come into the court.
From brassy bosoms and rough hearts of flint,
Be this perpetual. What says our second daughter,
More hath it merited; that let it have.
Bid them all home; he's gone, and we'll no further.
Yes, he is dead; how wilt thou do for a father?
'Twere good you knocked him.
And for his safety there I'll best devise.
Can change their moons and bring their times about
What's the need?
Now cannot I strike him, if I should be hanged.
True, and it was enjoined him in Rome for want of
Fool, there was never a man so notoriously abused: I
Therefore you speak unskilfully: or if your
are they not monsters?
And I for such like petty crimes as these,
His sparking eyes, replete with wrathful fire,
Lays blame upon his promise. Please't your highness
When Caesar lived, he durst not thus have moved me.
Why, he is the prince's jester: a very dull fool;
And, noble signior,
That chair stand empty: but we all are men,
Which he enforced from me, away he posts
Why tough senior? why tough senior?
We like not this; thou dost forget thyself.
O excellent motion! Fellows, let's be gone.
Betideth here in absence of thy friend;
Yes, he was.
And, if not so, how should I wrong a brother?
SCENE III. A room in Sempronius' house.
do against a monarch! you may as well go about to
Begin his fashion: do not talk of him,
'Be serviceable to my son,' quoth he,
False fiend, avoid!
Therefore, all hearts in love use their own tongues;
Staying the odds by adding four.
Lay me, O, where
Go, bid them prepare.
Didst thou behold Octavia?
Under the service of a child as soon
Stands at a guard with envy; scarce confesses
your ring; which, in my opinion, o'ervalues it
pass for a wise man: for what says Quinapalus?
Welcome my lord; I dance attendance here;
but only my followers' base and ignominious
a-hungry, to challenge him the field, and then to
This favour will I do you for his sake;
For which, if I be lapsed in this place,
must give folks leave to prate: what, the good-jer!
Some friendship will it lend you 'gainst the tempest:
Nobler than that it covers: let thy effects
bark Expedition put forth to-night; and then were
'Tis no matter! I shall speak as much as thou
And say besides, that in Aleppo once,
Alive again? then show me where he is:
What news? what news?
In a most curious mantle, wrought by the hand
all free men? As Caesar loved me, I weep for him;
If Brutus will vouchsafe that Antony
Hanging a golden stamp about their necks,
seems he to be touched?
Think'st thou I am an executioner?
And leave you to attend him: some dear cause
Who had, no doubt, some noble creature in her,
I do digest the poison of thy flesh,
Say you so? Fair lord,--
For she had a tongue with a tang,
Sleeps. IACHIMO comes from the trunk
She bids me think how I have been forsworn
beauties, let me sustain no scorn; I am very
ease:' O, an you will have me live, play 'Heart's ease.'
So, so;
Jog on, jog on, the foot-path way,
How might one do, sir, to lose it to her own liking?
Why, we will set forth before or after them, and
My father's brother, but no more like my father
All that are his so too. To do this deed,
Like a dull actor now,
Sir, the Germans desire to have three of your
her, child, if she be a whore.
Not to see ladies, study, fast, not sleep!
I thought all for the best.
My daughter! what of her? Renew thy strength:
How cursed Athens, mindless of thy worth,
No, no; we will hold it as a dream till it appear
Now the fair goddess, Fortune,
Ajax;' and he replies 'Thanks, Agamemnon.' What think
you to this?
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
Draw after her. Pardon what I have spoke;
Wives may be merry, and yet honest too:
What Eve, what serpent, hath suggested thee
And it is marvel he out-dwells his hour,
That thou restrain'st from me the duty which
And what you do, do it unfeignedly.
Direness, familiar to my slaughterous thoughts
It is a cause worthy my spleen and fury,
what I am: I must be sad when I have cause and smile
For things that others do; and, when we fall,
How now, Ophelia!
You are there followed by a faithful shepherd;
With the dove of Paphos might the crow
Sweet Kate, embrace her for her beauty's sake.
For our bad neighbour makes us early stirrers,
In such another trick. Go bring the rabble,
But winter and rough weather.
unaccommodated man is no more but such a poor bare,
Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters
This dream is all amiss interpreted;
you make grand preparation for a duke de Jamany: by
To hear of pleasure's name;
If he were that which now he's like, that's dead;
Our friends at least.
And bring him jump when he may Cassio find
Though angel on the outward side!
Think on thy Proteus, when thou haply seest
battery. He sits in his state, as a thing made for
Harp not on that, nor do not banish reason
Than to drive liking to the name of love:
The better, given me by so holy a man.
If I do wake, some planet strike me down,
their books,
Which is the bell: so sighs and tears and groans
Which God revenge!
But I must also feel it as a man:
Of education all the grace,
Didst thou not say, when I did push thee back--
That done, our day of marriage shall be yours;
This honourable bounty shall belong:
as I expect my revenge. That part thou, Pisanio,
Enter HOTSPUR
So is he, being a man.
Exeunt
He shall be welcome too. Where is his son,
My lord so please you, these things further
'Tis one thing to be tempted, Escalus,
That trembles under his devouring paws;
SCENE II. Before the walls of Athens.
On whom I may confer what I have got:
ACT II
I must be married to my brother's daughter,
And is not this an honourable spoil?
His name unparallel'd, haply amplified;
'Jesu preserve thee! welcome, Bolingbroke!'
Which pleasure fits an husband, not a father;
And did he not, in his protectorship,
Let me lodge Lichas on the horns o' the moon;
a pitch,--pitch that defiles: defile! a foul
As the duke said,
That all but we enjoy; for how can we,
The entreaties of your mistress! satisfy!
May favor Tamora, the Queen of Goths--
Well, say I am; why should proud summer boast
love perhaps a hackney. But have you forgot your love?
hope his honour will conceive the fairest of me,
honour; unless I find him guilty, he shall not die.
And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove,
Whose mother was her painting, hath betray'd him:
That he had not so trimm'd and dress'd his land
Enter DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, LEONATO, FRIAR FRANCIS, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, HERO, BEATRICE, and Attendants
Never afflict yourself to know the cause;
And with presented nakedness out-face
highness feed?
At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues
thou think I  care for a satire or an epigram? No:
Patience, good Katharina, and Baptista too.
My widow says, thus she conceives her tale.
I kill'd not thee with half so good a will.
So 'tis reported:
Prithee, let's walk. Now, by my holidame.
I am wrapp'd in dismal thinkings.
I found it in his closet, 'tis his will:
What is it that you would impart to me?
What say'st thou, my lady?
in your ward sufficient to serve it?
But how prevail'd you?
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
And for my means, I'll husband them so well,
and what one thing, what another, that I shall
As dissolute as desperate; yet through both
I have kept you next my heart; have not alone
The Earl of Douglas is discomfited:
Any hard lesson that may do thee good.
Lord Mortimer, and cousin Glendower,
He is frank'd up to fatting for his pains
To whisper. At the which let no man wonder.
Whilst to take order for the wrongs I went,
Your brother Richard mark'd him for the grave:
Seem'd to die too; yea, at that very moment
From whence shall Warwick cut the sea to France,
Upon my soul, a lie, a wicked lie.
We lose the better half of our possession:
Let me but move one question to your daughter;
Exeunt
friendship
We are merely cheated of our lives by drunkards:
thine eyes so red: thou must be patient. I am fain
Is that old noble lady, Duchess of Norfolk.
And on the winking of authority
Whose names are written there, and to them say,
his rope-tricks. I'll tell you what sir, an she
Come thou no more for ransom, gentle herald:
Profess'd to him, why, his revenges must
A fool of thee: depart.
And palm to palm is holy palmers' kiss.
There's not a nobler man in Rome than Antony.
Pretty soul! she durst not lie
But half an hour!
And as the sun breaks through the darkest clouds,
Alcibiades banished!
Blood and revenge are hammering in my head.
It is the wittiest partition that ever I heard
And kept severely from resort of men,
And in's spring became a harvest, lived in court--
Whate'er thou hear'st or seest, stand all aloof,
A second time within these arms.
Affliction alters.
What we are sorry for ourselves in thee.
company light upon thee! I will fear to catch it
Your ear is good. Cassius, what night is this!
What shipping and what lading's in our haven,
gone both ways.
Look, if my gentle love be not raised up!
Your potent and infectious fevers heap
Since thou, created to be awed by man,
Confess it, th' one to th' other; and thine eyes
How now, Master Fenton!
How now, Varrius!
And though myself have been an idle truant,
Shall bitterly begin his fearful date
He knew his man.
Are ceremonious courtiers.
quickly, and speak apace. I would thou couldst
SCENE III. Another part of Blackheath.
He'll lead me, then, in triumph?
Thou look'st like him that knows a warlike charge:
We'll follow Cade, we'll follow Cade!
We have, sir.
And make your bondmen tremble. Must I budge?
but something
How came he mad?
Fe, fe, fe, fe! ma foi, il fait fort chaud. Je
What's the matter?
O, but she'll keep her word.
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
Promises boys hereafter. Sir, your queen
Suitors to her and rivals in my love,
Antiochus and his daughter dead;
know Anne's mind for that: never a woman in Windsor
Infortunate in nothing but in thee:
Rising and cawing at the gun's report,
Go, one of you, find out the forester;
Here they're but felt, and seen with mischief's eyes,
No space of earth shall sunder our two hates:
To sit upon a hill, as I do now,
Aside
His heart is fracted and corroborate.
His master thus.
month's length a-piece, by an abstract of success:
but thee; and thou deservest it.
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and SIR ANDREW
Ay, I do.
I will be deaf to pleading and excuses;
The sweat of industry would dry and die,
But the Norweyan lord surveying vantage,
to old shoes; when they are in great danger, I
Master Barnardine! you must rise and be hanged.
We grant thou canst outscold us: fare thee well;
That haunted us in our familiar paths:
Such as would please: 'tis gone, 'tis gone, 'tis gone:
That no man hath access by day to her.
Let loose on me the justice of the state
And how shall we continue Claudio,
steps me to her trencher and steals her capon's leg:
Fie, what a question's that,
That they may fairly note this act of mine!
I should not think it strange; for 'tis a physic
While we return these dukes what we decree.
For Warwick and his friends, God and Saint George!
Fear not slander, censure rash;
Eleanor, the law, thou see'st, hath judged thee:
Fare thee well. Remain thou still in darkness:
Whose house?
himself in Thames up to the neck; and so I would he
In loud rebellion.
Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile,
and Helen so blushed, an Paris so chafed, and all the
'Here may you see the tyrant.'
What else, man? The stuff we have, a strong wind
And pardon absolute for yourself and these
I have so: what of him?
Take hence this Jack, and whip him.
We were encounterd by a mighty rock;
Howe'er the business goes, you have made fault
Enters the tomb
Death hath not struck so fat a deer to-day,
Take that of me, my friend, who have the power
O, I am slain!
Made glorious summer by this sun of York;
As else I would be, were the day prolong'd.
made this treaty.--You and I have known, sir.
I' the part that is at mercy? Five times, Marcius,
Were you the doctor and I knew you not?
Live, and be prosperous: and farewell, good fellow.
I will lead them up and down:
Why, lady, Love hath twenty pair of eyes.
Inhabits our frail blood.
Enter DOUGLAS
Moreover, if you please, a niece of mine
Our Rome hath such a soldier.'
Our duty to your honour.
How things go from him, nor resumes no care
course of gratitude, but be a diligent follower of
That nothing-gift of differing multitudes--
I do not see them bleed.
And then?
With every gale and vary of their masters,
Beseech you, give me leave to retire myself.
Then, afterwards, to order well the state,
Have scarce strength left to give them burial.
Grant me this boon.
And what hath mass or matter, by itself
This lady's husband, Sir Richard Grey, was slain,
I am to blame.
Let villany itself forswear't. I must
Sauf votre honneur, de elbow.
My reverend father, let it not be so!
O excellent!
Because you are not of our quality,
Well, sir, learn to jest in good time: there's a
[Within]  Lead, boy: which way?
it as any man in England. You are afraid, if you see
Desire them home. Give me thy hand, my cousin;
If thy revenges hunger for that food
of my father's will. I am glad this parcel of wooers
Cricket, to Windsor chimneys shalt thou leap:
ANTIPHOLUS
Of the ravin'd salt-sea shark,
take a king. And what sayest thou then to my love?
If I do find him fit, I'll move your suit
You had much ado to make his anchor hold:
Faith, Sir John,'tis more than time that I were
Of hostile arms! myself myself confound!
Let heaven requite it with the serpent's curse!
Keep thy word: fare thee well.
Made me a looker on here in Vienna,
Hector would have them fall upon him thus:
you to gratify the table with a grace, I will, on my
Strike not by land; keep whole: provoke not battle,
When inward joy enforced my heart to smile!
My lords, I thank you both for your good wills;
bare till merit crown it: no perfection in reversion
Will thither straight, for willingness rids way;
I'll none of it: hence! make your best of it.
That I had no angry wit to be a lord.
Who makest a show but darest not strike, thy conscience
Conjectural marriages; making parties strong
And with his varying childness cures in me
But where is he?
That quaint in green she shall be loose enrobed,
Camillo has betray'd me;
Edward Plantagenet, why art thou dead?
Out, out, thou strumpet, Fortune! All you gods,
Till by degrees the memory of my womb,
This 'tis:
Shall all thy mother's hopes lie in one tomb?
Falstaff!--Fast asleep behind the arras, and
So virgin-like without? Lo, here she comes.
They heave MARK ANTONY aloft to CLEOPATRA
If the matter of this paper be certain, you have
What is your will, sir, that you send for me?
One seven-night longer.
Which their own conscience seal'd them--laying by
mocks; I have forgot his name.
Madam, farewell.
His fame lives in the world, his shame in you.
Enter KING HENRY VI and Attendants
And let not hemp his wind-pipe suffocate:
His equal had awaked them, and his honour,
My Lord of York, was not one Doctor Pace
Where, after I have solemnly interr'd
Though to myself forsworn, to thee I'll faithful prove:
Out o' the moon, I do assure thee: I was the man i'
'Tis heavy with him: and am I then revenged,
work with him. I will plant you two, and let the
A bridegroom say you? 'tis a groom indeed,
She said so: I must needs report the truth.
And leave you to the hearing of the cause;
To others' eyes; nor doth the eye itself,
The daughter of a king, our wife, and one
I could not find him at the Elephant:
There's half-a-dozen sweets.
Upon that poor and broken bankrupt there?'
The discontents repair, and men's reports
followers, for it appears by their bare liveries,
And give you to the gods.
Ran on the green-sward: nothing she does or seems
king, and cat of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
fifth, the Prince of Morocco, who brings word the
A slave, that still an end turns me to shame!
As you must needs, for you all cried 'Go, go,'--
disobedience. He that hangs himself is a virgin:
arrived but hither.
Exeunt
What I have seen and known. You shall observe him,
If you deny it, let the danger light
Ay, sir, in Pisa have I often been,
you mock at an ancient tradition, begun upon an
to the history of lust and foul thoughts. They met
The poor deer's blood, that my heart means no ill.
The arm'd rhinoceros, or the Hyrcan tiger;
And once again cry 'Charge upon our foes!'
enough. Who can speak broader than he that has no
Such as it is, being tender, raw and young:
What news from Oxford? hold those justs and triumphs?
Her suit is granted for her husband's lands.
O, upon my knee,
Caesar cried 'Help me, Cassius, or I sink!'
Fitting my bounty and thy state, I'll give it;
I'll answer thee in any fair degree,
To-morrow's vengeance on the head of Richard.
The gods withhold me!
By and by.
Thou wilt not hear me now; thou shalt not then:
fire, being burnt i' the hand for stealing of sheep.
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
And what shall become of those in the city?
This fool-begg'd patience in thee will be left.
The thing we sue for.
I'll have this secret from thy heart, or rip
Affliction till it do cry out itself
We'll leave a proof, by that which we will do,
think I'll fear thee as I fear thy father? nay, an
Under the title of John Mortimer.
But say, is Warwick friends with Margaret?
Exeunt
No might nor greatness in mortality
And then with what haste you can get you to bed.
Remove from her the means of all annoyance,
went to sea with the Ten Commandments, but scraped
Forgive my tyranny; but do not say
I will not trust you, I,
Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
ground of your fair mistress, make her go back, even
And, with a martial scorn, with one hand beats
In his bosom! In what chapter of his bosom?
That would refuse so fair an offer'd chain.
be last swallowed: when he needs what you have
And by whose help I mean to chastise it.
And keep the natural ruby of your cheeks,
These people at our back.
O brave young prince! thy famous grandfather
And could it work so much upon your shape
the madman.
To both your honours.
La, la, la, la! 'nothing doubting,' says he? Alas,
As fresh as morning dew distill'd on flowers?
I do say thou art quick in answers: thou heatest my blood.
When thy first griefs were but a mere conceit,
Within this hour bring me word 'tis done,
press in here, sir, amongst the rest of the country
Yet bend not all the harm upon yourself;
I' the swathing-clothes the other, from their nursery
Witness against us to damnation!
Yes, yes, Sir Thomas,
When we are so unsecret to ourselves?
Which are the movers of a languishing death;
Our duty is so rich, so infinite,
No, nor more fearful.
Princes,
And watery death-bed for him. He may win;
Giving him papers
And he shall surety me. But for this lord,
a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant; it
Last longer telling than thy kindness' date.
mark Alexander's life well, Harry of Monmouth's life
Set me the stoops of wine upon that table.
That you'll vouchsafe me raiment, bed, and food.'
'Poor forlorn Proteus, passionate Proteus,
Against the laws and statutes of this town,
Alas poor Romeo! he is already dead; stabbed with a
Exeunt
Of the all-building law; and that there were
Go fetch it, sister.
Ah, that this sight should make so deep a wound,
A sister I bequeath you, whom no brother
Then, sweet my lord, I'll call mine uncle down;
wears the marble.
So Tamora:
honest a 'omans as I will desires among five
And mere instinct of love and loyalty,
And did supply thee at thy garden-house
That which thou canst not undo.
A drum, a drum!
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Was crown'd in Paris but at nine months old.
What piles of wealth hath he accumulated
With sighs of love, that costs the fresh blood dear:
three pound, lift as much as his brother Hector.
Then Antony,--but now--Well, on.
But there's no remedy; I shall answer it.
I have a journey, sir, shortly to go;
Braved in mine own house with a skein of thread?
Here, wear this jewel for me, 'tis my picture;
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
We'll speak with thee at sea: at land, thou know'st
the devil.
Their several counsels they unbosom shall
I'll then discourse our woes, felt several years,
Before the eyes of both our armies here,
What art thou fall'n? What subtle hole is this,
'And more faults than hairs,'--
Our bosom interest: go pronounce his present death,
Leaving his wealth and ease,
Have told me, I being by, that I should kill him?
Well, heaven knows how I love you; and you shall one
Most noble Timon, call the man before thee.
Straight marry her: to this her mother's plot
Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars,
Thy sun sets weeping in the lowly west,
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus. Perpend.
That they should harbour where their lord would be.'
Tarry, Jew:
A custard-coffin, a bauble, a silken pie:
With words of sovereignty.
Were not this glorious casket stored with ill:
Come, say your prayers.
Tut, you saw her fair, none else being by,
Re-enter DEMETRIUS
God's patience and the king's English.
naming punishes me with the remembrance of that
But hast thou yet latch'd the Athenian's eyes
Had falsely thrust upon contrary feet,
temperance.
Alack, no remedy!--to the greedy touch
Thou rather with thy sharp and sulphurous bolt
Which Harry Percy here at Holmedon took,
With meditations lawful?
Pray, good shepherd, what fair swain is this
For shame! in duty bend thy knee to me
Containing the deposing of a king
wipe their lips.
As infancy and grace. But yet, Paulina,
[Aside]  She needs not, when she knows it cowardice.
Lysander riddles very prettily:
Unplagued with corns will have a bout with you.
At fools I laugh, not fear them.
pox, leave thy damnable faces, and begin. Come:
It were impossible I should speed amiss.
What is't that you took up so gingerly?
Nay, come, your hands and lips must seal it too:
No big-boned men framed of the Cyclops' size;
Enter YORK
of honour; so belike is that.
I know you think to dine with me to-day,
Why, we have galls, and though we have some grace,
To wag their high tops and to make no noise,
Beyond all limit of what else i' the world
linguist and the armipotent soldier.
Take up this mangled matter at the best:
Having a son and friends; since Julius Caesar,
Were all the wealth I have shut up in thee,
if it be nothing, I shall not need spectacles.
Should yet be hungry! Common mother, thou,
Fated to the purpose did Antonio open
For I am much ashamed of my exchange:
Canst thou not guess wherefore she plies thee thus?
Marry, I fare well for here is cheer enough.
Wanton in fulness, seek to hide themselves
soul dares not present itself: she is too bright to
every one of these letters are in my name. Soft!
What talkest thou to me of the hangman? if I hang,
Thee I'll rake up, the post unsanctified
Good morrow, fair ones: pray you, if you know,
request in my stead. I beseech you, let his lack of
Directly, I am going to Caesar's funeral.
And fled, as he hears since, to Burgundy.
Our youths and wildness shall no whit appear,
The blot and enemy to our general name!
Already at a point, was setting forth.
Take them away.
Enter IACHIMO
your pate. I will carry no crotchets: I'll re you,
My heart doth joy that yet in all my life
Exit
By no assay of reason: 'tis a pageant,
A vessel of our country richly fraught:
my foe to sweat:
Release my brother; and, after much debatement,
her as long as there is a passage in my throat and
Is not the king's name twenty thousand names?
To lay so dangerous and dear a trust
I would know that.
She wish'd me to make known; but our great court
the lip of his mistress: your diet shall be in all
you might slip away ere he came. But what make you here?
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must:
I should my tears let fall upon your cheek,
Some airy devil hovers in the sky
That's good too: but what needs either your 'mum'
But cruel are the times, when we are traitors
But darkness and the gloomy shade of death
Let's hew his limbs till they be clean consumed.
But Dover castle: London hath received,
After distasteful looks and these hard fractions,
And make the Douglas' son your only mean
What comfort to this great decay may come
Hight Philoten: and it is said
defence absence. What beast couldst thou be, that
Protector, see to't well, protect yourself.
Go charge Agrippa
That no compunctious visitings of nature
And high top bald with dry antiquity,
And it was dyed in mummy which the skilful
Preserve the king.
No more, I pray thee: I am half afeard
Thou almost makest me waver in my faith
Smile upon this contract; whose ceremony
Should have ascended to the roof of heaven,
As if my brother lived: I partly think
'Tis common:
I perceive you delight not in music.
The firstlings of my hand. And even now,
And tell him so; for I will ease my heart,
Thy womb let loose, to chase us to our graves.
she is spherical, like a globe; I could find out
Prithee, hold thy peace; this is not the way: do
Is as the maiden's organ, shrill and sound,
My father, in kind heart and pity moved,
The first conditions, which they did refuse
are to be loved. No, my good lord; banish Peto,
Your grace?
My father, as nurse said, did never fear,
My hand would free her, but my heart says no
Her that so wishes and her humble love!
Then follow me, and give me audience, friends.
Or but allay, the fire of passion.
The games are done and Caesar is returning.
All the occurrences, whatever chanced,
Than, by concealing it, heap on your head
The time is worth the use on't.
'Tis no counterfeit.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  I fear her not, unless she
What talk you of debating? in few words,
Murder not then the fruit within my womb,
That ever death should let life bear his name,
Let AEsop fable in a winter's night;
be what they are, there were no fear in marriage;
the street.
And maidens call it love-in-idleness.
As thou art match'd withal and grafted to,
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
To close the day up, Hector's life is done.
By fountain clear, or spangled starlight sheen,
His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge: I have
Till I and my affairs are answered.
That she did make defect perfection,
unruly boys.
you are false knaves.
That they may crush down with a heavy fall
Here burns my candle out; ay, here it dies,
What shall I need to draw my sword? the paper
Than those she placeth highest! So, farewell.
To visit her poor castle where she lies,
Ere he would have hanged a man for the getting a
Sir Proteus, you are stay'd for.
Marry, my lord, lest, by a multitude,
Of every syllable that here was spoke.
Wherefore weep you?
in his youth an inland man; one that knew courtship
me: for the life to come, I sleep out the thought
I had been writ down an ass!
Meantime your cheeks do counterfeit our roses;
Calm thee, and bear the faults of Titus' age,
the king's fair daughter Claribel to the King of Tunis.
must come off; I'll sauce them. Come.
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
For the same handkerchief?
You shall like diamonds sit about his crown.
Exeunt
I pray you all, tell me what they deserve
Remuneration for the thing it was;
Where you'll be loath to be: besides you know
Do not draw back, for we will mourn with thee
We follow thee.
There's nothing differs but the outward fame.
And little recks to find the way to heaven
Not I.
Shall braying trumpets and loud churlish drums,
A man that languishes in your displeasure.
You do yourselves
Nay, rather, wilt thou draw thy forces hence,
Does tire the ingener.
Exit an Attendant
On thy soul's peril and thy body's torture,
and says little; to fear judgment; to fight when I
Who doth ambition shun
How now, my hearts! did you never see the picture
And shakes his head and trembling stands aloof,
ANTIPHOLUS
Usurping ivy, brier, or idle moss;
Give you good morrow, sir.
Thou, being a king, blest with a goodly son,
And, sheriff, I will engage my word to thee
loads o' gravel i' the back, lethargies, cold
Up to the breach, you dogs! avaunt, you cullions!
As they are sharing, the Prince and Poins set upon  them; they all run away; and Falstaff, after a blow or two, runs away too, leaving the booty behind them
Farewell to your worship.
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
Nay, I beseech you, sir, be not out with me: yet,
Sings
Faith, madam, I have other holy reasons such as they
Enter OXFORD and SOMERSET
There is a sickness
Your father was ever virtuous; and holy men at their
of no one good quality worthy your lordship's
When my tongue blabs, then let mine eyes not see.
O plague and madness!
You, brother mine, that entertain'd ambition,
My lord of Salisbury, we have stay'd ten days,
Exeunt CLITUS, DARDANIUS, and VOLUMNIUS
What should I say? he was too good to be
O, this will make my mother die with grief!
And no great friend, I fear me, to the king.
Drabbing: you may go so far.
Or, if it must stand still, let wives with child
You are mistaken: the one may be sold, or given, if
Re-enter PAULINA
That war against your own affections
And in such indexes, although small pricks
Weeping and wailing over Tybalt's corse:
Then is there mirth in heaven,
Dost thou say so?
Your heart has mind to.
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS QUICKLY
Saying, the sanguine colour of the leaves
Exit Page
Mars his idiot! do, rudeness; do, camel; do, do.
Nay, stay thou out for earnest.
So, your opinion is, Aufidius,
First, for his weeping into the needless stream;
And if thou fail us, all our hope is done:
But they must blab--
What says Lord Stanley? will he bring his power?
No such matter: I will not sort you with the rest
Sweet, adieu. I'll keep my oath,
and give way: when I know not what else to do, I'll
is immortal; those that do die of it do seldom or
The ring was never hers.
Under your testy humour? By the gods
Were born to see so sad an hour as this;
that I may repent.
And wager on your heads: he, being remiss,
By the four opposing coigns
lose the tide, if you tarry any longer.
Though most dishonestly he doth deny it.
In an ungracious mouth is but profane.
Then let's make haste away, and look unto the main.
And that's but unwholesome food they say.
I made these wars for Egypt: and the queen,--
Young Ferdinand, whom they suppose is drown'd,
love thee.
Our youngest born, I could as well be brought
He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled
Either send the chain or send me by some token.
Of these events at full. Let us go in;
Exit
Mist-like, infold me from the search of eyes.
My thrice-driven bed of down: I do agnise
Come, tie his body to my horse's tail;
censure worse than drunkards.
The sceptre, learning, physic, must
Take again
Think on thy sins.
shot out in our latter times.
We charge you, in the name of God, take heed;
Albeit I'll swear that I do know your tongue.
The nobility are vex'd, whom we see have sided
Which of the peers
Had spread their cursed deed, and honour'd name
During my life; and, to confirm his goodness,
drunkest last.
So, so; now sit: and look you eat no more
You said so much before, and yet you fled.
Our debts, our careful wives,
O, let me live!
To bear my lady's train, lest the base earth
The offers we have sent you.
Take that for your fair lady.
To the king I'll say't; and make my vouch as strong
And we did think it writ down in our duty
If I would stand against thee, would the reposal
Master Page, I am glad to see you: much good do it
Farewell, sweet playfellow: pray thou for us;
more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more
Ho! says a' There's my cap.
Faith, I will live so long as I may, that's the
his first approach before my lady: he will come to
'Tis double wrong, to truant with your bed
Some word there was, worser than Tybalt's death,
spirit Percy, and that devil Glendower? Art thou
Hath an argosy cast away, coming from Tripolis.
Employ'd you where high profits might come home,
Doth for a wife abhor. But her fair sister,
I took a costly jewel from my neck,
Octavius, lead your battle softly on,
And must she die for this? O, let her live,
Of Edmund Mortimer, who married Philippe,
Sans cheque to good and bad: but when the planets
To him, and to his substitutes.
Most audible, even from his proper tongue,
your worship. Mistress Page hath her hearty
pair his nails, for they shall hang out for the
If ever,--as that ever may be near,--
Who cannot condemn rashness in cold blood?
O! my fear interprets: what, is he dead?
Or with pale beggar-fear impeach my height
Falstaff's a knave, a cuckoldly knave; here are his
To house or housekeeping: then, at my farm
Even as a flattering dream or worthless fancy.
I must inform you of a dismal fight
I will do so: till then, think of the world.
Cicero is dead,
blessing of God till I have issue o' my body; for
Upon a sore injunction: my sweet mistress
The element they lived in: in his livery
dissolutely spent on Tuesday morning; got with
consent to you: if any man may, you may as soon as
More than my shanks and wrists: you good gods, give me
Be mad and merry, or go hang yourselves:
Bid sorrow wag, cry 'hem!' when he should groan,
Nor yet the other's distance comfort me.
SCENE III. A hall of justice.
He longs to eat the English.
But with advice and silent secrecy.
For I have only been silent so long
And every hour more competitors
Than when I first my wedded mistress saw
care for me.
And bid them speak for me: but were I Brutus,
And wolves are gnarling who shall gnaw thee first.
Exeunt
Which Rome reputes to be a heinous sin,
pass of pate; there's another garment for't.
Is one of the fairest that I have look'd upon.
me; in requital whereof, henceforth carry your
The same, sir.
his use was to put a ducat in her clack-dish: the
Exit DEMETRIUS
you not heard speak of Mariana, the sister of
And then the whole quire hold their hips and laugh,
I pray thee, good Leonardo, think on this:
And this soft courage makes your followers faint.
His conquering banner shook from Syria
Both stile and gate, horse-way and foot-path. Poor
Now I have stain'd the childhood of our joy
Any of these ways are yet better than this;
Enter CHARMIAN, IRAS, ALEXAS, and a Soothsayer
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed,
The young man is an honest man.
I ken the wight: he is of substance good.
It is great morning, and the hour prefix'd
Storm and tempest
We'll part the time between's then; and in that
Make war breed peace, make peace stint war, make each
With most delicious poison. Think on me,
Which often leaves the history unspoke
There dancing up to the chins, that the foul lake
My thoughts aim at a further matter; I
Curse not thyself, fair creature thou art both.
This gallant pins the wenches on his sleeve;
Then I repent not.
The general were put in mind of it.
Makes the remembrance dear. Well, call him hither;
Pompey is moved. More Ates, more Ates! stir them
Monsieur Love! I will hide me in the arbour.
PAROLLES.'
The food of thy abused father's wrath!
O, were mine eyeballs into bullets turn'd,
Enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
Came on my guard; and at thy tent is now
Who, with some other of the lords dependants,
That every man should take his own,
Why, there is it: come sing me a bawdy song; make
Upon entreaty have a present aims;
Have by my means been butcher'd wrongfully!
You do it her: and so, Sir John, farewell!
me: your name, I think, is Adrian.
Sorely, to say I did; it is as bitter
SCENE I. London. QUEEN KATHARINE's apartments.
Enter two Senators with VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA,  VALERIA,  and c. passing over the stage, followed by Patricians and others
First to possess his books; for without them
Who find in my exile the want of breeding,
He cares not for your weeping. Speak thou, boy:
Nor thou, nor these, confederates in the deed
I dare now call mine own. O Cromwell, Cromwell!
Good night.
His princes and his peers to servitude,
Say that the king, which may command, entreats.
will swear!
Bearing the king's will from his mouth expressly?
Than be so
To feed again, though full. You do remember
Pretty and apt.
And yet we strike not, but securely perish.
He shall not carry him: I'll be ta'en too,
Then would I hide my bones, not rest them here.
followers, whose condemnation is pronounced. So far
bearing my port, 'celsa senis,' that we might
Our quick remove from hence.
There is my pledge;
I thank your worship: God be wi' you!
Exeunt fairies
He is a sick man that would speak with you.
And you the queen on't.
could not be else: I have drunk medicines. Poins!
That never object pleasing in thine eye,
you. O you gods, think I, what need we have any
No way excuse his soils, when we do bear
If with the sap of reason you would quench,
Have you laid fair the bed? Is all things well,
Exeunt QUEEN and Ladies
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
Re-enter to CARDINAL WOLSEY, NORFOLK and SUFFOLK, SURREY, and the Chamberlain
When from the Dauphin's crest thy sword struck fire,
How often dost thou with thy case, thy habit,
have heard her swear't. Tut, there's life in't,
O, how the wheel becomes it! It is the false
Have been as piercing as the mid-day sun,
Patient yourself, madam, and pardon me.
Too noble for this place.
He shall here find his friends with horse and men
How now, daughter and cousin! are you crept hither
Now, when the angry trumpet sounds alarum
Yea, overshines ourself.
And haste her to the purpose.
We men may say more, swear more: but indeed
And bid them blow towards England's blessed shore,
Or at their chamber-door I'll beat the drum
Get goal for goal of youth. Behold this man;
Being a divine, a ghostly confessor,
then am I the prisoner, and his bed my goal; from
There's his period,
That make their looks by his; he was not merry,
A saint-like sorrow: no fault could you make,
Myself and divers gentlemen beside
Thou art a villain to impeach me thus:
O, very well; I have perused the note.
Than they in fearing.
Beat thou the drum, that it speak mournfully:
[Reads]
With a coronet of fresh and fragrant flowers;
Enter LADY MACBETH and a Servant
Some blessed power deliver us from hence!
So perfect and so peerless, are created
Whom heavens, in justice, both on her and hers,
Exit OSWALD
I come one way of the Plantagenets.
Whose maiden blood, thus rigorously effused,
To wear an undeserved dignity.
'Aroint thee, witch!' the rump-fed ronyon cries.
That I did amplify my judgment in
Nay, faith, let me not play a woman; I have a beard coming.
I know your majesty has always loved her
If I be false, or swerve a hair from truth,
Ne'er may I look on day, nor sleep on night,
honorificabilitudinitatibus: thou art easier
I never had honest man about me, I; all
Be thou my witness that against my will,
sweet Benedick! God give me patience!'
Enter LYSANDER and HELENA
Say, gentle princess, would you not suppose
In sweet music is such art,
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  And so, my lord protector,
MISTRESS PAGE and MISTRESS FORD come forward
Culling the principal of all the deer.
knew yourself with your judgment, the fear of your
And both the princes had been breathing here,
well for her.
The fourth turn'd on the toe, and down he fell.
Show you sweet Caesar's wounds, poor poor dumb mouths,
I prithee,
Ere that correction. Troilus, I say! what, Troilus!
Roderigo, if thou hast that in thee indeed, which I
Like to the glorious sun's transparent beams,
How much in having, or without or in,
And yet the painter flatter'd her a little,
woman. Him I, as my ever-esteemed duty pricks me on,
head, 'tis pride: but why, why? let him show us the
That thou so many princes at a shot
she can knit him a stock?
He talks to me that never had a son.
Banish the canker of ambitious thoughts.
DON
As could not be distinguish'd but by names.
That life is better life, past fearing death,
snake; and I will have an apology for that purpose.
Enter Host, SHALLOW, SLENDER, and PAGE
Of what your reverence shall incite us to.
Shall star-like rise, as great in fame as she was,
Exeunt
Poor honest lord, brought low by his own heart,
On blossoming Caesar; and this pine is bark'd,
Prithee, honey-sweet husband, let me bring thee to Staines.
'The pig,' quoth I, 'is burn'd;' 'My gold!' quoth he:
not proved worthy a blackberry: they set me up, in
a barren rascal? an you smile not, he's gagged:'
Let Antony and Caesar fall together.
Nay; I beseech you, mark it well.
and where they would be safe, they perish: then if
Him we go to find: there's not a hair on's head
Bodykins, Master Page, though I now be old and of
Nay, you shall have no hat.
SCENE III. OLIVIA's house.
Do you damn others, and let this damn you,
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they, distilled
'Zounds! who is there?
Out, insolent! thy bastard shall be king,
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
Ay, if a woman live to be a man.
I'll keep you company.
own part, I am, as they say, but to parfect one man
Thanks, noble Titus, father of my life!
Rises
You wish me well.
Peasant, unless thou give me crowns, brave crowns;
Mistake me not--to save my life, for if
busy below; and so, I pray you, go, in God's name,
Where sits deformity to mock my body;
When slanders do not live in tongues;
hundred and fifty; Sebastian, so many; Corambus, so
Hold, hurt him not, for God's sake! he is mad.
There's matter in these sighs, these profound heaves:
Yet camest thou to a morsel of this feast,
That presently you hie you home to bed.
Come up to the truth. So have we thought it good
Ever to read them thine.
Than their bare hands.
for light; else, sir, no more tribute, pray you now.
Would give it quick consideration, for
And die among our neighbours. Nay, behold 's:
them than mortal knowledge. When I burned in desire
And tell you what I know.
Or if he do, let it at least be said
He that parts us shall bring a brand from heaven,
My tale provokes that question. Dear, they durst not,
ANTIPHOLUS
Is not amiss when it is truly done,
Nay, would I were so anger'd with the same!
Which, as it seems, make thee.
Now, now: I have not winked since I saw these
SCENE VII. Rome. A public place.
What is't thou say'st? Her voice was ever soft,
praise me?
Never lacks power to dismiss itself.
I cannot read; the character I'll take with wax:
You must begin, 'Will you, Orlando--'
Re-enter MACDUFF
promise-keeping.
That to her brother which I said to thee:
I love thee.
My tongue should stumble in mine earnest words;
gentleman's saying.
Our Alexandrian revels; Antony
Noble and young,
Let me endure your wrath, if't be not so:
Will rush into the state: it cannot be.
nothing. Will you sing?
Doth ravish like enchanting harmony;
most homely shepherd; a man, they say, that from
Never any did so, though very many have been beside
Shall weigh thee to the beam; that wilt not know,
Will lose his beauty; yet the gold bides still,
So, this is Tyre, and this the court. Here must I
justle a constable. Why, thou deboshed fish thou,
Close by, my master.
Comfort, my lord; and so I take my leave.
With this abundance of superfluous breath?
Marry, sir, I come to your worship from Mistress Ford.
desert before his birth, and, being born, his addition
Transparent Helena! Nature shows art,
It seems you are in haste: an if there be
Nay, but it is not so.
daughter's flight.
Perchance because she knows them innocent.
upon great persuasion; and partly to save your life,
him, good heart.
Did it to help thee to a better husband.
She hath been then more fear'd than harm'd, my liege;
That is not quickly buzzed into his ears?
Ha! I have said. Be gone. What!
And caterpillars eat my leaves away;
But by your setting on, by your consent?
Worse and worse; she will not come! O vile,
'Tis on such ground, and to such wholesome end,
But wilt thou not speak all thou knowest?
For my part, I am so attired in wonder,
To help unarm our Hector: his stubborn buckles,
Nor can I utter all our bitter grief,
My lord,--
regal. What canst thou answer to my majesty for
We will, my noble lord.
Now, the pox upon her green-sickness for me!
'Tis almost night: you shall have better cheer
And things unlucky charge my fantasy:
will not tell myself; and yet 'tis a milkmaid; yet
Blush for pure shame to counterfeit our roses,
Exeunt OTHELLO and DESDEMONA
But as well? then you are mad indeed, if you be no
selling the dukedom of Maine.
Of what he has, and has not.
Where is thy leather apron and thy rule?
Within his tent; but ill disposed, my lord.
Why, man?
Unshout the noise that banish'd Marcius,
If not complete of, say he is not she;
Nor shines the silver moon one half so bright
The faith they have in tennis, and tall stockings,
Ay me! for aught that I could ever read,
'Tis an unseason'd courtier; good my lord,
Shrewdness of policy too, I grieving grant
I know where I will wear this dagger then;
when she put 'em i' the paste alive; she knapped 'em
Almost midnight, madam.
Then be it as you will; for 'tis my right,
Aside to SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
Or bathed thy growing with our heated bloods.
Will you remember?
I would I could not think it: that thought is
How thou hast met us here, who three hours since
Set but thy foot
And proved the subject of my own soul's curse,
That villanous abominable misleader of youth,
Not by might master'd but by special grace:
Her infinite cunning, with her modern grace,
SCENE VII. Near Actium. MARK ANTONY's camp.
How tame, when men and women are alone,
No night is now with hymn or carol blest:
And pull her out of Acheron by the heels.
That, after this strange starting from your orbs,
Winning will put any man into courage. If I could
Your grace shall give me leave, my Lord of York,
During all question of the gentle truce;
O, I am stabb'd with laughter! Where's her grace?
To LAVINIA
I tell you, madam, were the whole frame here,
A mother and a mistress and a friend,
And by that fire which burn'd the Carthage queen,
So your dislike, to whom I would be pleasing,
With resolution, wheresoe'er I meet thee--
For I am bold to counsel you in this.
I have done so, but he's not to be found.
That, like the sun, did make beholders wink?
Cannot be truly follow'd. You shall mark
Ay, ay, three thousand ducats.
What's the matter?
DON
Crossing the sea from England into France,
of England?
earnest of thy service.
course for England: of them I have much to tell
The borrow'd glories that by gift of heaven,
Stand by me, Lucius; do not fear thine aunt.
hear from you.
You are my guests: do me no foul play, friends.
By crying comfort from a hollow breast,
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
For I have had such faults; but rather tell me,
Not a relation for a breakfast nor
To him will I : out of these convertites
Thus says AEneas; one that knows the youth
'Twill weep for having wearied you. My father
Enter LUCIUS
Well, officer, arrest him at my suit.
To change two dukedoms for a duke's fair daughter.
And study too, the causer of your vow;
Alack, what noise is this?
I have no joy of this contract to-night:
Anon his Thisbe must be answered,
Enter VIOLA, and Clown with a tabour
By strangling thee in her accursed womb
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
Then put up your pipes in your bag, for I'll away:
And come to deadly use.
you killed a sweet and innocent lady. For my Lord
sleep, and they may have their throats about them at
Tribunes, give way; he shall to the market-place.
'Tis of some wreck.
Now death shall stop his dismal threatening sound,
meat, sir, it shall be covered; for your coming in
I have done the state some service, and they know't.
Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Shall have a thousand crowns for his reward.
Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
Enter MARIA
hunt this weather? They have scared away two of my
In summer's drought I'll drop upon thee still;
Though thou didst learn, had that in't which
I'll steal away.
A stranger Pyramus than e'er played here.
That go or tarry.
And gem of all the nation.
Good morrow to thee, gentle Apemantus!
A gilt nutmeg.
My Lord Pandarus,--
In limited professions. Rascal thieves,
That seest a game play'd home, the rich stake drawn,
Do you perceive in all this noble company
To shallow--
if thou thou'st him some thrice, it shall not be
Calchas, I think. Where's your daughter?
[To OTHELLO]  What, in your own part, can you say to this?
Four of their lords I'll change for one of ours.
Do you hear, master porter?
So, sirs: now go some and pull down the Savoy;
And now I do bethink me, it was she
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
That I should neither sell nor give nor lose it.
I, sir, am Dromio; pray, let me stay.
Matter of marriage was the charge he gave me,
Why, villain, art not thou the carrier?
As if he mock'd himself and scorn'd his spirit
SCENE I. OLIVIA's garden.
She will not fail, for lovers break not hours,
They durst not do 't;
Ay. You have some stain of soldier in you: let me
What if it should be so?
I would they were abed!
ANTIPHOLUS
Should have kept short, restrain'd and out of haunt,
So farewell, Talbot; I'll no longer trust thee.
Enter PERICLES, CLEON, DIONYZA, and LYCHORIDA with MARINA in her arms
This follows, if you will not change your purpose
He speaks plain cannon fire, and smoke and bounce;
Than Edward will for tidings of my death.
I'll tell you what,--
And welcome more common; for that's nothing but words.
I found it not.
As little shall the Frenchmen gain thereby.
Dead, sure; and this his grave. What's on this tomb
genitivo, hujus. Well, what is your accusative case?
How now, Sir Proteus! Is your countryman
To overbear it, and we are all well pleased,
No, he's in Tartar limbo, worse than hell.
Come, the gods have done their part in you.
As yonder Venus in her glimmering sphere.
And hold me pace in deep experiments.
Good cousin, give me audience for a while.
Let 's away;
Master Peaseblossom, I shall desire you of more
To gain the love o' the commonalty: the duke
Your message done, hie home unto my chamber,
With honours like himself.
teeth and tear it; O, I warrant it, how he mammocked
You mistook, sir; I say, she did nod: and you ask
No swearing.
Subscribe to your deep oaths, and keep it too.
Why, as it were unlicensed of your loves,
Then fiery expedition be my wing,
For sauciness. I pray you, let us hence,
In this vile world? So, fare thee well.
Exeunt
At pleasure here we lie near Orleans;
Religion to the gods, peace, justice, truth,
I sent for thee upon a sad occasion.
deceived you both; I have directed you to wrong
In her unholy service. Patience, then,
in a quarter--of an hour; paid money that I
Exit
Methinks I do.
Put into circumscription and confine
woman! My bed shall be abused, my coffers
Boil thou first i' the charmed pot.
That Caesar will not grant. O, I grow faint.
you strange news that you yet dreamt not of.
Not fate, obedience, nor the hand of Mars
And, now it is half-conquer'd, must I back
takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers
Just in her case! O woful sympathy!
Enter AJAX and THERSITES
odds with his own gravity and patience that ever you
We'll talk of that hereafter. Prithee, speak,
To be commenced in strands afar remote.
For, by the honour of my parents, I
Which you do here forbid me, royal Priam.
This is the man that can, in aught you would,
Exit
Two women placed together makes cold weather:
So it should be, that none but Antony
But that her flight prevented it, she had
Faith, gentlemen, now I play a merchant's part,
Ay, but he will not now be pacified: Fabian can
When articles too nicely urged be stood on.
And they'll seem glorious.
That she preparedly may frame herself
Exit
O, brave!
every mother's son, and rehearse your parts.
Where is your ancient courage? you were used
Though it do split you; for, from this day forth,
I see the lady hath a thing to grant,
That in your chambers gave you chastisement?
If put upon you, make the judgment good
Black men are pearls in beauteous ladies' eyes.
'Twere sure enough.
Sleeps
For us, and for our tragedy,
you, la plus belle Katharine du monde, mon tres cher
Ere stay behind this business.
To have a worthy feeding: but I have it
That we at our own charge shall ransom straight
Hath now entrapp'd the noble-minded Talbot:
Thy fortune, York, hadst thou been regent there,
You should account me the more virtuous that I have
And you, fair sister.
worthy of by your attempt.
Aside to SATURNINUS
But as I travell'd hither through the land,
First, give me trust, the count he is my husband,
Upon that day either prepare to die
And say 'To-morrow is Saint Crispian:'
Exit
He was a wight of high renown,
What is your study?
These cardinals trifle with me: I abhor
Caesar, I shall.
When he did need your loves, and do you think
If Hercules and Lichas play at dice
How honourable ladies sought my love,
the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come.
Let me behold thy face. Surely, this man
By Jove, I always took three threes for nine.
Or else break out in peevish jealousies,
will sing the savageness out of a bear: of so high
That he did plot the Duke of Gloucester's death,
So it may prove an argument of laughter
He gives you, upon his knees, a thousand thanks; and
Why, wilt thou tourney for the lady?
Wounds will I lend the French instead of eyes,
The flattering index of a direful pageant;
More than it is ere foul sin gathering head
hang'd first.
Of stout Mercutio, and then Tybalt fled;
This day is ours, as many more shall be.
A man at least, for less I should not be;
We'll not offend one stomach with our play.
I'll leave you to your fortune and be gone
Nay, hear me, Isabel.
This goddess, this Semiramis, this nymph,
Thou wouldst appear most ugly. He is married?
Stay, Humphrey Duke of Gloucester: ere thou go,
Which in the very meeting fall and die.
Alas for both, both mine, Edward and Clarence!
She better would have fitted me or Clarence:
Good even, Varro: what,
and place shall serve, that I am an ass.
Excellent falsehood!
What dost thou wrap and fumble in thine arms?
We see the very wreck that we must suffer;
Beguiled all spies.
The trick of's frown, his forehead, nay, the valley,
Her body sleeps in Capel's monument,
Varro's
She is the fairies' midwife, and she comes
How he describes himself!
How fares my noble lord?
Are all call'd neat.--Still virginalling
What, art so near? If thou'lt see a thing to talk
What I must strive to do.
Her husband's to Aleppo gone, master o' the Tiger:
'scape.
Exeunt
How like the empress and her sons you are!
And wish'd in silence that it were not his.
The master, the swabber, the boatswain and I,
My father, in his habit as he lived!
they were as cold as any stone, and so upward and
Nor care I who doth feed upon my cost;
The king and queen there! that they were, I wish
For now we sit to chat as well as eat.
Set deadly enmity between two friends,
The lives of those which we have lost in fight
Pale trembling coward, there I throw my gage,
A lioness, with udders all drawn dry,
For in thy shoulder do I build my seat,
Green indeed is the colour of lovers; but to have a
constantly, but a time-pleaser; an affectioned ass,
hast me, if thou hast me, at the worst; and thou
Enter PORTIA, NERISSA, LORENZO, JESSICA, and BALTHASAR
I do, I pray God my girdle break.
The inaudible and noiseless foot of Time
Now outlaw'd from my blood; he sought my life,
I have already.
Perhaps some merchant hath invited him,
And with his charity slain.
Descends
is no whipstock: my lady has a white hand, and the
carp as you may; for he looks like a poor, decayed,
Your husband, being troubled with a shrew,
And I'll say nothing.
I'll buckler thee against a million.
And on to-morrow, bid them march away.
I had rather hear you chide than this man woo.
Who knocks so hard? whence come you? what's your will?
Enter GLOUCESTER, solus
6. Marquess Dorset, bearing a sceptre of gold,
Of her tongue she cannot, for that's writ down she
Many that are not mad
Why, if you have a stomach, to't, monsieur: if you
And did avoid a puttock.
Govern the motion of a kingly eye:
Till Suffolk gave two dukedoms for his daughter.
And men ne'er spend their fury on a child.
Touch not the boy; he is of royal blood.
While we bethink a means to break it off.
Ah! sancta majestas, who would not buy thee dear?
That way the noise is. Tyrant, show thy face!
Whereon, I do beseech thee, grant me this,
Wilt thou conceal this dark conspiracy?
the people mad?
Would 'twere so!
My Lord of Somerset, what youth is that,
Or, if you show your face, you must not speak.
Stabs him again
And when my face is fair, you shall perceive
It is spoke as a Christians ought to speak.
These walls of ours
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
Exeunt PRINCE HENRY and LANCASTER
And all the honours that can fly from us
To be my henchman.
Had quite miscarried: I dare be bound again,
feel, will break the back of man, the heart of monster.
This house is little: the old man and his people
Seven, by these hilts, or I am a villain else.
Exeunt BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and attendants
I'll give it, sir; and therefore spare my life.
for that I insinuate, or toaze from thee thy
Between two hawks, which flies the higher pitch;
Here, Hastings; I will never more remember
Scaring the ladies like a crow-keeper;
Who spake of brotherhood? who spake of love?
You rogue, I have been drinking all night; I am not
I see you do not mean to part with her,
O, who can hold a fire in his hand
Have done a drunken slaughter, and defaced
things catch.
Blame both my lord and me, that we have taken
And far enough from court too.
Defect of manners, want of government,
It would make any man cold to lose.
SCENE V. Paris. The KING's palace.
Then let me die, for now thou hast no cause.
To arms invasive? shall a beardless boy,
Fortune pursue thee!
Could have persuaded me: now I dare not say
The taints and blames I laid upon myself,
and for so much as I have perused, I find it not
Yours, if you talk of tails: and so farewell.
Who is to be buried in't?
Exit
I know not how to pray your patience;
And on them shalt thou ease thy angry heart.
Prerogative of age, crowns, sceptres, laurels,
Should ever get that privilege of me.
Sir, I desire you do me right and justice;
Stoop, I say;
The valiant Caesar!
You do amaze her: hear the truth of it.
Now, Hal, what time of day is it, lad?
dishonesty shall appear in me.
But yet,--poor Claudio! There is no remedy.
On which I'll toss the flower-de-luce of France.
darkling stand
Fetch Desdemona hither.
[Within]  Ay, when fowls have no feathers and fish have no fin.
A barren-spirited fellow; one that feeds
him last night.
I never hated thee: I have seen thee fight,
Till that the nature of your fault be known
that was, your son that is, your child that shall
things supernatural and causeless. Hence is it that
And speed must answer it.
I conjure thee to leave me and be gone.
without asking my good will?
And God acquit them of their practises!
It doth appear you are a worthy judge;
Than this pure soul shall be: all princely graces,
But, if I help, what do you promise me?
a hare: his dishonesty appears in leaving his
I am afraid; and yet I'll venture it.
To leave me but a little to myself.
Awake the pert and nimble spirit of mirth;
Not a whit.
Your slander never can endamage him;
To have it of my trust or for my sake.
Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, PISANIO, Lords, Officers, and Attendants
That pages blush'd at him and men of heart
Exeunt
This infant warrior, in his enterprises
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath,
The prince my brother hath outgrown me far.
Did tell me of you, bade me trust you; but
Sweet, above thought I love thee.
Till my attempt so much be glorified
What means this scene of rude impatience?
now with the doctor at the deanery, and there married.
Go, give 'em welcome; you can speak the French tongue;
Do you hear, forester?
No mind that's honest
To envious and calumniating time.
My lord, we must entreat the time alone.
These terms of treason doubled down his throat.
But just a pound of flesh: if thou cut'st more
In all her best array bear her to church:
My love to thee is sound, sans crack or flaw.
Item, you sent a large commission
not prophesy so.
We for the worthiest hold the right from both.
I would you were set, so your affection would cease.
And nothing of a man.
delightful ostentation, or show, or pageant, or
Only, in lieu thereof, dispatch me hence.
Ah, barbarous villains! hath this lovely face
Nay, then I see that Edward needs must down.
Cry, Trojans, cry! a Helen and a woe:
This man, with lanthorn, dog, and bush of thorn,
I hope I shall have leisure to make good;
But, O! the treacherous Fastolfe wounds my heart,
No, uncle; but our crosses on the way
Read o'er the volume of young Paris' face,
[Aside]  These are kind creatures. Gods, what lies
Thisbe, is the better; he for a man, God warrant us;
Come, let's hear, Jack; what trick hast thou now?
Come, Desdemona: I have but an hour
Infirmity doth still neglect all office
Where Juliet lives; and every cat and dog
Thy by-gone fooleries were but spices of it.
You shout me forth
To the tent-royal of their emperor;
Of thinking too precisely on the event,
Cicero one!
Which, mellow'd by the stealing hours of time,
Exeunt
Yes, heartily beseech you.
The music there!--I pray you, give her air.
I'll make death love me; for I will contend
I warrant. What, Robin, I say!
Marry, that should you, if I were your mistress, or
Of our despised nobility, our issues,
A pestilent gall to me!
The hateful commons will perform for us,
The purest spring is not so free from mud
For being a little bad: so may my husband.
Pattern'd by that the poet here describes,
but my wife, master doctor, is for you altogether.
Ha, ha, ha!
Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this?
And now may seem as wise as virtuous,
May we not get access to her, my lord?
By these exterior shows? But she is none:
Name it, fair cousin.
I shall answer that better to the commonwealth than
Let's not confound the time with conference harsh:
You do yet taste
Holla! approach.
And, though he in a fertile climate dwell,
And yet I love him.
And her withholds from me and other more,
Trumpets sound. Enter TIMON, addressing himself  courteously to every suitor; a Messenger from  VENTIDIUS talking with him; LUCILIUS and other servants following
Were they that murdered our emperor's brother;
Jack, then am I no two-legged creature.
As whence the sun 'gins his reflection
Come, sir, along with us.
No beast so fierce but knows some touch of pity.
Knocking within
None, but to desire your good company.
It is our part and promise to the Athenians
Belike she thinks that Proteus hath forsook her.
In your denial I would find no sense;
And pithless arms, like to a wither'd vine
drums! Only to seem to deserve well, and to
And art thou changed? pronounce this sentence then,
And who shines now but Henry's enemies?
Bid farewell to your sisters.
My lord, her wits, I fear me, are not firm:
Out, dog! out, cur! thou drivest me past the bounds
Come forth, I say! there's other business for thee:
Then that, without the knowledge
If I can fasten but one cup upon him,
The king of heaven forbid our lord the king
I thank your honour. For my part, my lord,
If I did love you in my master's flame,
Why, alas, what's the matter?
Whither away, Sir John Fastolfe, in such haste?
It must appear in other ways than words,
art as honest a true fellow as any is in Bohemia.
And so did mine too, as the matter falls;
The dead men's blood, the pining maidens groans,
And then, in speaking, not to incur the last,
Diseases in our bodies: I must perforce
Lifting his hand
And I do know, by this, they stay for me
So they do nothing, 'tis a venial slip:
full of briers is this working-day world!
Tombless, with no remembrance over them:
SCENE II. London. YORK'S garden.
I do beseech your grace,
Enter a Messenger
To keep me from a most unholy match,
He shall be thrown down the Tarpeian rock
Exit
Unto our gentle senses.
This weak impress of love is as a figure
He shall submit, or I will never yield.
O, he's drunk, Sir Toby, an hour agone; his eyes
Are you more stubborn-hard than hammer'd iron?
you tell me whether one Launcelot,
I bid them that did love their country's good
What prisoners of good sort are taken, uncle?
We have had pastimes here and pleasant game:
'Frets, call you these?' quoth she; 'I'll fume
Tell you, I do not, nor I cannot love you?
Circumstance; the seventh, the Lie Direct. All
No, as I shall be saved.
Full of comparisons and wounding flouts,
Are like the Trojan horse was stuff'd within
As duly, but not as truly,
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
And so
I have some business.
Saw you no more? mark'd you not how her sister
There's a great spirit gone! Thus did I desire it:
White his shroud as the mountain snow,--
franklins say it, I'll swear it.
And we shall talk before we fight.
Be patient, gentlemen; I choose her for myself:
Can hide you from our messengers of war,
'Sblood, I'll not bear mine own flesh so far afoot
with Polixenes, king of Bohemia, and conspiring
been that day in the belfry.
Come, now a roundel and a fairy song;
I'd such a courage to do him good. But now return,
O, but one word.
Within a fortnight!
O, yes; and went between us very oft.
The king himself in person is set forth,
In my rights,
Away with them to prison; and the day of combat
certainty, put myself into my mortal preparation;
What is it, Timon?
Our grace can make him so.
I am sorry, madam, I have hurt your kinsman:
In sign whereof I pluck a white rose too.
From the still-vex'd Bermoothes, there she's hid:
And fighting foot to foot.
They say miracles are past; and we have our
Crowns him with flowers and makes him all her joy:
Of old Andronicus. And what an if
Thou great defender of this Capitol,
Be it so; go back: the virtue of your name
I love you now; but not, till now, so much
Then bid adieu to me, and say the tears
O, then how quickly should this arm of mine.
Far in the fresh lap of the crimson rose,
What! he did not?
And with the incorporal air do hold discourse?
Fled to his house amazed:
Do climate here! You have a holy father,
conduct of the lady. I am no fighter. I have heard
may shine in at the casement.
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is
My lady's honour: what became of him
Tush, Gremio, though it pass your patience and mine
Off with the crown, and with the crown his head;
Why, cousin, wert thou regent of the world,
Then saw you not his face?
With Somerset's and Buckingham's ambition;
What, here? O nation, that thou couldst remove!
And pity, like a naked new-born babe,
Exeunt all but the First Gentleman
Have left their places vacant, in their rooms
Neither my place nor aught I heard of business
Thou mayst bereave him of his wits with wonder.
It will not let you eat, nor talk, nor sleep,
Leave thy drink and thy whore,
Whose heads stood in their breasts? which now we find
You are in the right. Good night, lieutenant; I
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
Now, afore God! this reverend holy friar,
mine; for it is plain pocketing up of wrongs. I
We be affied and such assurance ta'en
To show how costly summer was at hand,
To pluck proud Lucius from the warlike Goths.
In Italy, and her confederate arms,
Either be patient, and entreat me fair,
What doth our cousin lay to Mowbray's charge?
When she did starve the general world beside
'Tis the king's subtlety to have my life.
me to the semblance I put on; with the which I doubt
I like thy counsel; well hast thou advised:
How then? shall he marry her?
Alas, it is the baseness of thy fear
Of this proud king, who studies day and night
Where we left him, on the sea. We there him lost;
I faint almost to death.
A match!
Thou shalt not die whiles--
Yet, I pray you:
Well done, my lord.
My soul shall thine keep company to heaven;
man for coughing in the street, because he hath
What does he mean? since death of my dear'st mother
[Aside]          I do suspect you, madam;
Cassio, my lord! No, sure, I cannot think it,
Thyself I call it, being strange to me,
Be a whore still: they love thee not that use thee;
honour be witness, that no want of resolution in me.
He was but as the cuckoo is in June,
Enter ROSS and ANGUS
As, like to pitch, defile nobility,
The rack dislimns, and makes it indistinct,
And my dear father: how features are abroad,
it with stamped coin, not stabbing steel; therefore
That swells with silence in the tortured soul;
conscience take it.
He of Winchester
Had I been judge, thou shouldst have had ten more,
Her chambers are all lock'd; and there's no answer
Your passion draws ears hither.
Loved me above the measure of a father;
prospect of my hopes. Well, Jove, not I, is the
adieu: these foolish drops do something drown my
The army marvell'd at it, and, in the last,
And throw them in the entrails of the wolf?
says, you are no good member of the commonwealth,
Where all the kindred of the Capulets lie.
To paly ashes, thy eyes' windows fall,
Soldiers, adieu! I have what I would have,
For the crown'd Truth to dwell in: I will
From fairies and the tempters of the night
So it is.
his rest to do more exploits with his mace than a
his form, as you are like to find him in the proof
'Anon he finds him
Come, Marcus, let us go. Publius, follow me.
Set this device against Malvolio here,
Why dost thou whet thy knife so earnestly?
My fool usurps my body.
Finely put on, indeed!
They can be meek that have no other cause.
Except it be to pray against thy foes.
More matter for a May morning.
Madam, in good health.
saw you last that, I fear me, will never out of
From cold and empty veins, where no blood dwells;
Your sister is the better soldier.
Against the grace and person of my master,
She looks upon them with a threatening eye.
As late I have been, I not know: thy pulse
Am I not witch'd like her? or thou not false like him?
Speak on with favour; we are bent to hear.
Give fire: she is my prize, or ocean whelm them all!
Be avised, sir, and pass good humours: I will say
Down with it flat; take the bridge quite away
The venom'd vengeance ride upon our swords,
For man or master; then it follows thus;
And I will undertake all these to teach.
The foul fiend bites my back.
Thy father's charge shall clear thee from that stain.
I pray you, bring me on the way a little,
SCENE II. The same.
Exit Launcelot
I love her ten times more than e'er I did:
With strong and mighty preparation.
for her favours, I could lay on like a butcher and
And with a care, exempt themselves from fear;
You must not put another scandal on him,
Aside to her
'Tis all engaged, some forfeited and gone;
Of death or death's hand for this one-half year.
Even when their sorrows almost were forgot;
I'll have my kiss, sir. Lady, by your leave.
Hail to thee, noble master!
And then the power of Scotland and of York,
Perchance, Iago, I will ne'er go home.
Given to the fire, a moiety of my rest
Bade him win all.
With which the time will load him. The archbishop
Will not, nor cannot, use such vigilance
knowest, winter tames man, woman and beast; for it
you to Lord Timon's.
Enter PUBLIUS, BRUTUS, LIGARIUS, METELLUS, CASCA, TREBONIUS, and CINNA
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
DON
The graves stood tenantless and the sheeted dead
This business is well ended.
The means of weakness and debility;
The beggary of his change; but 'tis your graces
This proffer'd benefit of dignity;
and leave her in such honour as you have trust in,
That I have 'nointed an Athenian's eyes;
She shall be buried by her Antony:
Popilius Lena speaks not of our purposes;
And soon at supper-time I'll visit you
And thou art wedded to calamity.
For what had he to do to chide at me?
And like a neutral to his will and matter,
For here we entertain a solemn peace.
Good master secretary,
and discourse grow commendable in none only but
Right in thine eye. Away, my friends! New flight;
Smile you my speeches, as I were a fool?
That would not let me sleep: methought I lay
To the smothering of the sense--how far it is
A French song and a fiddle has no fellow.
be a tall fellow of thy hands.
Exit
How now, Lorenzo!
Enter a Messenger
Be not acknown on 't; I have use for it.
The close earth wombs or the profound sea hides
Hark, slave, it is but this:
of dropsies, that huge bombard of sack, that stuffed
Better to cease to be. Pray, sir, to the army:
She thanks you.
How now, old lad?
were pity of my life: no I am no such thing; I am a
Will the time serve to tell? I do not think.
come two noble beasts in, a man and a lion.
What we have two nights seen.
Is it a man?
Take comfort: he no more shall see my face;
To hear my nothings monster'd.
I do not think't.
ANTIPHOLUS
Sell every man his life as dear as mine,
SCENE I. LEONATO'S garden.
Mad ire and wrathful fury makes me weep,
Ay,
But, being mask'd, he was not sure of it;
Setting down his basket
When you above perceive me like a crow,
Reignier, Duke of Anjou, doth take his part;
But Jove was never slain, as thou shalt be.
I will not dine until I see the same.
And by good testimony, or I'll seize thy life,
my cousin Slender, and this day we shall have our answer.
When I dissuaded him from his intent,
lie with his wife. Come to me soon at night.
We do, sir; tell us what hath brought you to't.
Thou'rt a scholar; let us therefore eat and drink.
reputation, or bid farewell to your good life for ever.
Thou dost not speak so much.
When you should bring the plaster.
Beneath the visiting moon.
I mean in singing; but in loving, Leander the good
The plainer dealer, the sooner lost: yet he loseth
Look in upon me then and speak with me,
Exeunt
So you must be the first that gives this sentence,
Not all these lords do vex me half so much
Let floods o'erswell, and fiends for food howl on!
hath tamed my old master and my new mistress and
Your eld'st acquaintance cannot be three hours:
My love admits no qualifying dross;
Hath won the greatest favour of the commons,
But this cannot continue.
Mad for thy love?
turn them together. A man may be too confident: I
That can therein tax any private party?
No, Sir John; You do not know me, Sir John. I know
Was not Gaunt just, and is not Harry true?
And though I make this marriage for my peace,
Are often welcomest when they are gone.
Embrace and kiss and take ten thousand leaves,
Interpretation should abuse and call this
All lovers young, all lovers must
Is Edward your true king? for I were loath
Get me a taper in my study, Lucius:
I'll draw it as apparent to the crown,
So are we Caesar's friends, that have abridged
Not to kill him, having a warrant for it; but to be
Bounty, perseverance, mercy, lowliness,
as I was said to, Away!
Enter another Citizen
The monk might be deceived; and that 'twas dangerous for him
Your oaths are pass'd; and now subscribe your names,
Prove armed soldiers, ere her native king
Let it be so: the first inter'gatory
Philip of France, on peril of a curse,
The messengers from our sister and the king.
This wins him, liver and all.
'Ods pittikins! can it be six mile yet?--
it shines every where. I would be sorry, sir, but
Dites-moi l'Anglois pour le bras.
Immortal longings in me: now no more
Finding his usurpation most unjust,
You'll be gone, sir knave, and do as I command you.
To make your house our Tower: you a brother of us,
As strange unto your town as to your talk;
By mine honour, half drunk. What is he at the gate, cousin?
He last asked the question. Poor rogues, and
Desires you to attach his son, who has--
God's bodykins, man, much better: use every man
The complaints I hear of thee are grievous.
Deck'd in thy rights, as thou art stall'd in mine!
And other books, good ones, I warrant ye.
I'll bring her to the Grecian presently:
And thrice cried 'Courage, father! fight it out!'
Now, Apemantus, if thou wert not sullen, I would be
Thus it goes:--
Is to come fairly off from the great debts
I come, anon.--But if thou mean'st not well,
up my rest to run away, so I will not rest till I
ANTIPHOLUS
See it so grossly shown in thy behaviors
To this imperial throne. There is no bar
The kings your ancestors, together with
Gives light in darkness, comfort in despair!
Together with that pale, that white-faced shore,
Prithee, no more: thou dost talk nothing to me.
my way shall be paved with English faces.
Shall e'er divorce my dignities.
Are idly bent on him that enters next,
of virtue, answer me.
'Tis now but four o'clock: we have two hours
That she's the chosen of Signior Hortensio.
If sore be sore, then L to sore makes fifty sores
thou art thought to be Achilles' male varlet.
Nor, as we are, we say we will not shun it:
O Isabel, will you not lend a knee?
Who, like a foul and ugly witch, doth limp
Her chamber is aloft, far from the ground,
What further woe conspires against mine age?
Do seek subversion of thy harmless life?
Courage enough: I do not fear the flaw;
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord:
Thus hath the course of justice wheel'd about,
this very instant disaster of his setting i' the
abused; and Don John is the author of all, who is
To do in these fierce vanities? I wonder
That robb'd my soldiers of their heated spleen;
What! was it you that would be England's king?
And justify you traitors: at this time
Out of the powerful regions under earth,
AEneas, call my brother Troilus to me,
To some Attendants
Nor know I you by voice or any feature:
Then gather strength and march unto him straight:
Which had superfluous kings for messengers
To TAMORA
Be patient, gentle Nell; forget this grief.
To what infectiously itself affects,
And with their helps only defend ourselves;
Or I would see his heart out, ere the priest
Our Roman rites: Alarbus' limbs are lopp'd,
To touch Calpurnia; for our elders say,
about her heart. Is there any cause in nature that
Hail to you both!
Whither, if it please you, we may now withdraw us.
Like twenty torches join'd, and yet his hand,
God and King Henry govern England's realm.
Well said, my hearts! You are a princox; go:
Now we are victors; upon us he smiles.
Hourly afflict: merely, thou art death's fool;
You have now the good advantage of the night:
As to vouchsafe one glance unto the ground.
Nor her, nor thee, nor any of thy stock:
for running!
before him.
was full of jests, and gipes, and knaveries, and
To join with Mortimer, ha?
That hath express'd himself in all his deeds
For womanish it is to be from thence.
Command me.
Which is my heaven to have. Come, thou
I warrant it will.
As I would serve a rat.'
To melt the city leads upon your pates,
Enter PISANIO
SCENE II. A banqueting-room in Timon's house.
'Tis only title thou disdain'st in her, the which
Had been dishabited, and wide havoc made
Was like to be the best.
Enter LEONATO, ANTONIO, BENEDICK, BEATRICE, MARGARET, URSULA, FRIAR FRANCIS, and HERO
quick by him and hanged for Pompey that is dead by
They converse apart
the general's wife be stirring, tell her there's
As masterly as he: mere prattle, without practise,
Good my lord,
know him. He hath much land, and fertile: let a
And there I see such black and grained spots
Calls not your counsels, but our natural goodness
Dead to my husband?
In every wound of Caesar that should move
love-broker in the world can more prevail in man's
O sinful thought! Never so rich a gem
And whither go they?
Stands Scotland where it did?
I wonder none of you have thought of him.
And yet herein I judge mine own wit good--
fells, you know, are greasy.
Here of these shores?
Gave Hector a gift, the heir of Ilion;
And thus I set my foot on 's neck;' even then
My women may be with me; for you see
For daws to peck at: I am not what I am.
Yet AEolus would not be a murderer,
to a second, that have so mightily persuaded him
Marry, you may partly hope that your father got you
Too early seen unknown, and known too late!
It were a shame to let this land by lease;
Who told me how the poor soul did forsake
Heaping confusion on their own heads thereby!
To give the world assurance of a man:
For my example.
You'll mar all:
flesh and blood is not to be punished by him. Show
I warrant you.
Think that I am unking'd by Bolingbroke,
This monument five hundred years hath stood,
Your gates against my force. Yet, for I loved thee,
Is not to reason of the deed, but do it.
A virgin and his servant, say to him.
When others are more wicked: not being the worst
That's able to breathe life into a stone,
Spending his manly marrow in her arms,
therefore I'll hide me.
Upon the hill of Basan, to outroar
'What fates await the Duke of Suffolk?'
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
O excellent device! was there ever heard a better,
eloquence, nor I have no cunning in protestation;
Thank you, good Pompey; and, in requital of your
Ha, ha, ha!
For God's sake, fairly let her be entreated:
Why, then thou shalt not have thy husband's lands.
To be thus is nothing;
Well, do your discretion.
I am the most offending soul alive.
Madam, I was very late more near her than I think
Render me worthy of this noble wife!
As doth thy face through tears of mine give light;
This morning, uncle.
For well I wot that Henry is no soldier.
The least of which haunting a nobleman
I have perused her well;
Is he whipp'd?
Re-enter TITUS LARTIUS
Would he were here, my lord! for he indeed
displeasure in him by word or countenance?
Enter the DUCHESS aloft, HUME following
blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
We'll celebrate their nuptials, and ourselves
Willing to overlook this pedigree:
Where be the thronging troops that follow'd thee?
Sir Hugh, my husband says my son profits nothing in
But not my griefs; still am I king of those.
And were you well advised?
'Twas from the canon.
Madam, if this you purpose as ye speak,
The spirit torments me; Oh!
Well, somewhat we must do. Come, cousin, I'll
How many weary steps,
My grandam told me he was murdered there.
So forcing faults upon Hermione,
Stand, stand, and fight!
time: after your death you were better have a bad
O Gertrude, come away!
Could all my travels warrant me they live.
A letter, that she loves the knight of Tyre!
Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his palate
sufficiently manage, must either stay to execute
If circumstances lead me, I will find
her brother thus? I am sure care's an enemy to life.
And did request me to importune you
grant this.
Enter BRANDON, a Sergeant-at-arms before him, and two or three of the Guard
Nor from the state nor private friends, hereafter
he so takes on yonder with my husband; so rails
As justice, verity, temperance, stableness,
To SILVIUS
Here is her picture: let me see; I think,
'But yet' is as a gaoler to bring forth
Why, they stay at door, sir.
could turn your eyes toward the napes of your necks,
I will be sure my Katharina shall be fine.
And thou must cure me: till I know 'tis done,
Alas, our frailty is the cause, not we!
To unburden all my plots and purposes
In open market-place produced they me,
I Pompey am, Pompey surnamed the Big--
Rome's emperor, and nephew, break the parle;
Controlment for controlment: so answer France.
Bear witness, Heaven, I have my wish for ever.
loves, and, I am proud, say, that my occasions have
there is no evil angel but Love. Yet was Samson so
Nor you, Lorenzo; Jessica, nor you.
Than can my care-tuned tongue deliver him!
Now play me Nestor; hem, and stroke thy beard,
The present consul, and last general
[Reads]  'sorted and consorted, contrary to thy
O grace! O heaven forgive me!
I live with bread like you, feel want,
My lord, I will be thankful.
Exeunt
but I thought there was more in him than I could think.
For art and exercise in your defence
Did not you speak?
For testimony of her foul proceedings:
Gone, sir: farewell.
The tongues of soothers; but a braver place
But we both obey,
Distinctly his full function.
good favour you have, but that you have a hanging
have the first choice. Follow me, girls.
him, if he came.
For, being not propp'd by ancestry, whose grace
No, my lord, rather with choler.
How malicious is my fortune, that I must repent to
Give me your hand and say you will be mine.
She shall be loved and fear'd: her own shall bless her;
Great. Pompey, you are partly a bawd, Pompey,
Repose in fame; none basely slain in brawls:
O, let me speak!
Within these ten days if that thou be'st found
i' the church. I have dogged him, like his
Hark! hark! the Dauphin's drum, a warning bell,
So much I challenge that I may profess
Indeed, I was their tutor to instruct them:
To lock it in the wards of covert bosom,
The winter coming on and sickness growing
Are they returned to the court?
Ha, ha! are you honest?
Have tongue to charge me with.
But Nature never framed a woman's heart
Or keep it as a cistern for foul toads
Your person most, that he would pawn his fortunes
Clarence comes.
conscience says 'No; take heed,' honest Launcelot;
Do not go forth to-day: call it my fear
Where thou shalt rest, that thou mayst hear of us
sheep-cote! all deaths are too few, the sharpest too easy.
SCENE IV. Another part of the forest.
And brings the dire occasion in his arms
And you that love the commons, follow me.
Hold, villain!
Sweet poetry and Tully's Orator.
Ran in my veins, I was a gentleman;
I see the play so lies
Exeunt
No, my noble lord;
Exeunt
For beauty that made barren the swell'd boast
sir, in a dungeon, i' the stocks, or any where, so I may live.
or not I the detector!
Look, how he laughs already!
from thicket;
And soon and safe arrived where I was.
Unto the poor King Reignier, whose large style
Divide me like a bribe buck, each a haunch: I will
Undone by goodness! Strange, unusual blood,
fairly last night.
Why, so he did, I am sure.
Villain, thy father was a plasterer;
Lest it should burn above the bounds of reason.
No, truly, unless thou wert hard-favoured; for
Belike your lordship takes us then for fools,
That do converse and waste the time together,
Stay, on thy peril: I alone will go.
With purpose to relieve and follow them,
What should you do, but knock 'em down by the
Is not thy coming for my other hand?
Are not you he?
damned than to do't?
Why do you make such faces? When all's done,
Please you walk in, my lords.
go to bed.
Add thereto a tiger's chaudron,
Your pleasure and my promise.
My lord, stand back, and let the coffin pass.
How meanest thou? brawling in French?
May spend our wonder too, or take off thine
Yet their own authors faithfully affirm
Do all they deny her? An they were sons of mine,
And from your love I have a warranty
Send to his brother; fetch that gallant hither;
Which my despair proclaims; let that be left
Speak, Romans, speak; and if you say we shall,
Useth the sparrow; did oppress our nest;
No bending knee will call thee Caesar now,
What mean you, Caesar? think you to walk forth?
abhors, and cross-gartered, a fashion she detests;
And, sowing the kernels of it in the sea, bring
Before you can say 'come' and 'go,'
Not yet, my cousin: we would be resolved,
I do, thou most usurping proditor,
Give thee quick conduct.
Kneels
the painted cloth for this: your lion, that holds
Cousin, throw up your gage; do you begin.
None in the world; nor do I know the man.
Enter Sailors
If he improve them, may well stretch so far
do, chapels had been churches and poor men's
Good king, that must approve the common saw,
am apt to do myself wrong; I am not so reputed: it
Mayst thou inherit too! Welcome to Paris.
A school-boy's top. Away with her! to prison!
Celerity is never more admired
And, when thou hast done this chare, I'll give thee leave
His powerful mandate to you, 'Do this, or this;
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
To send in to your wife: my suit to her
Enter a Pedant
And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils
And then to Calais; and to England then:
Well; I will take him, then torture my wife, pluck
And thou shouldst tow me after: o'er my spirit
Exit
wooing, nor her sudden consenting; but say with me,
I'll have: but how, when Antony is gone
There was not such a gracious creature born.
Bind Dromio too, and bear them to my house.
But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours,
youth in us; we are the sons of women, Master Page.
Brother of England, you blaspheme in this.
Why, Belman is as good as he, my lord;
I will not kiss thee; then the rot returns
My lord, the enemy is past the marsh
'Tis like you'll prove a jolly surly groom,
ANTIPHOLUS
For villains mark'd with rape.--May it please you,
for worms. But I'll go search the market.
Drones suck not eagles' blood but rob beehives:
Necessity will make us all forsworn
O, never was there queen
Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to nobleness.
[Aside to CLARENCE]  You shall have four, if you'll
His fits, his frenzy, and his bitterness?
but in the figures and comparisons of it: as
Swum ashore. man, like a duck: I can swim like a
brave Titus:
Reveal how thou at sea didst lose thy wife:
have before gored the gentle bosom of peace with
If silent, why, a block moved with none.
Have learn'd me how to brook this patiently.
If this be so, as yet the glass seems true,
It will be well.
Let it be lawful that law bar no wrong:
What! I, that kill'd her husband and his father,
Call him in.
Hath sorted out a sudden day of joy,
Arts-man, preambulate, we will be singled from the
Thinking to bar thee of succession, as
When in the why and the wherefore is neither rhyme
As tediously as hell, but flies the grasps of love
I dread, too late.
And aid me with that store of power you have
SCENE III. Plains in Gascony.
I'll see your grace: till then I'll follow her.
open thy affair.
According to that state you shall be used.
Ay me! says one; O Jove! the other cries;
Never to marry with her though she would entreat:
Coupled in bonds of perpetuity,
What sum owes he the Jew?
The grand conspirator, Abbot of Westminster,
As secretly and justly as your soul
buff jerkin?
Your grace's title shall be multiplied.
Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, and IMOGEN
Until their greater pleasures first be known
Than what you hear of: come more, for more
My love is most immaculate white and red.
Look, where he stands and glares!
Losses their remedies. All weary and o'erwatch'd,
Whilst my invention, hearing not my tongue,
Consider you what services he has done for his country?
By Juno, I swear, ay.
And with her golden hand hath pluck'd on France
I would not for a million of gold
None wed the second but who kill'd the first.
say an old man is twice a child.
Incensed the seas and shores, yea, all the creatures,
The general is my lover: I have been
Maintains such falsehood, then turn tears to fires;
down, king!
May prove his travel, not her danger.
To our pavilion shall I lead you, sir.
If thou hadst been Dromio to-day in my place,
these you may avoid but the Lie Direct; and you may
Enter VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA	they set them down on two low stools, and sew
The napless vesture of humility;
Arm, fight, and conquer, for fair England's sake!
Go we to council. Let Achilles sleep:
A noble fellow, I warrant him.
About his neck, yet never lost her lustre;
His crest that prouder than blue Iris bends.
Her blush is guiltiness, not modesty.
listening. Now I begin: Imprimis, we came down a
Ay, my lord.
some reservation of your wrongs: he is my good
Marcus Andronicus, so I do ally
care of him.
You beastly knave, know you no reverence?
How may the duke be therewith satisfied,
Either expound now, or receive your sentence.
Throwing the body down
Quail to remember--Give me leave; I faint.
After so long grief, such festivity!
And in conclusion she shall watch all night:
You take pleasure then in the message?
this be duly performed; with a thought that more
The evils she hatch'd were not effected; so
Enter a Servant and PANDARUS
O, good my lord, no Latin;
The royal occupation! thou shouldst see
But not approach'd.
That which you are, mistress o' the feast: come on,
Exit BARDOLPH
Of all our purposes. What say you to it?
'as sure as day,'
By rushing in their houses, bearing thence
And mark what object did present itself:
Whether, if you yield not to your father's choice,
Nor never come in vizard to my friend,
They descend
O perjured woman! They are both forsworn:
my heart to bestow it all of your worship.
To FLORIZEL
True, Clifford; and that's Richard Duke of York.
Lovers in peace, lead on our days to age!
Their fears of hostile strokes, their aches, losses,
No: first shall war unpeople this my realm;
But, if thou be a king, where is thy crown?
Whether Caesar will come forth to-day, or no;
Myself was from Verona banished
Merely through fear; that the straight pass was damm'd
Enter SATURNINUS and TAMORA, with AEMILIUS, Tribunes, Senators, and others
No, indeed, sir; the Lady Olivia has no folly: she
Sir Stephen Scroop, besides a clergyman
Revenged may she be on that hateful duke,
The Dauphin, whom of succors we entreated,
Hast thou conspired with thy brother too,
We will with some strange pastime solace them,
That you might know it, would much better please me
But this thing dare not,--
Such an act
To what effect?
Thy kingly doom and sentence of his pride.
How one man eats into another's pride,
Then let us teach our trial patience,
herald's coat without sleeves; and the shirt, to say
'Thus, thus,' quoth Forrest, 'girdling one another
Most worthy gentleman, I and my friend
My prisoners in your majesty's behalf.
Even as one heat another heat expels,
And for I know she taketh most delight
To know your royal pleasure.
Your lord sends now for money.
I'll be with you at your sheep-shearing too: if I
Was foully snatch'd.
I do not always follow lover, elder brother and
With aid of soldiers to this needful war.
Be merciful, great duke, to men of mould.
And straight am nothing: but whate'er I be,
Be merry, for our time of stay is short
But kill'st the mother that engender'd thee!
And for my tidings gave me twenty kisses.
Shall not behold her face at ample view;
Tressel and Berkeley, go along with me.
The want whereof doth daily make revolt
Fire and brimstone!
Even all I have; yea, and myself and all,
As is a winged messenger of heaven
Had sent to me first, but for my mind's sake;
The worst returns to laughter. Welcome, then,
I would attach you all and make you stoop
I know thou dost.
But on the sight of us your lawful king,
I pray thee, tell me then that he is well.
The Trojans' trumpet.
All yet seems well; and if it end so meet,
That will undo her: to confirm this too,
Hoping it was but an effect of humour,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
gently considered, I'll bring you where he is
Even to the frozen ridges of the Alps,
Hum, ha!
Divers and dangerous; which are heresies,
But in her company there is a Moor;
Would the fountain of your mind were clear again,
Cassio shall have my place. And, sir, tonight,
Return us thanks.
Enter a Soldier of CAESAR's
You must walk by us on our other hand;
I am glad to see your highness.
And give them friendly welcome every one:
Had you your letters from your wife, my lord?
many; Jaques, so many; Guiltian, Cosmo, Lodowick,
So long could I
Yea.
Ne'er heard I of a warlike enterprise
Come, go with me apart; I will withdraw,
You have now a broken banquet; but we'll mend it.
And strew this hungry churchyard with thy limbs:
No, indeed.
I'll seek them.
Therefore I have entreated him along
Dear earth, I do salute thee with my hand,
Lord Say, the traitors hate thee;
Run to my Lord of Suffolk; let him know
To be Count Malvolio!
I am in heaven for him; or ere I could
O, sir, your presence is too bold and peremptory,
Then Lord have mercy on me!
And then to have the humour of state; and after a
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
That were embattailed and rank'd in Kent:
BISHOP
Exit Lord Mayor
I, having been acquainted with the smell before,
of purses than giving direction doth from labouring;
Marcius, 'tis true that you have lately told us;
With that which we lovers entitle affected.
And those musicians that shall play to you
exceptions to your ill hours.
gold a counterfeit: thou art essentially mad,
Marry, this is yet but young, and may be left
The duke and senators of Venice greet you.
Some other give me thanks for kindnesses;
Edward the Third, he bids you then resign
Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
Exit VALENTINE
With worms that are thy chamber-maids; O, here
All for my master's sake, Lucentio.
His plate, his goods, his money and his lands.
Is this all your worship's reason?
That I have wept a hundred several times.
villain! Somebody call my wife. Youth in a basket!
Most sorry, you have broken from his liking
No; then he will say 'twas done cowardly, when he wakes.
Hold, take this letter; early in the morning
Of no esteem: I, dreading that her purpose
I go, sir.
The fifth was Edmund Langley, Duke of York;
'Tis but a blow, which never shall be known.
I thought thy disposition better temper'd.
Steed threatens steed, in high and boastful neighs
Will turn unto a peaceful comic sport,
Taught thee to make vast Neptune weep for aye
The devil.
Would be unparallel'd.
And does he send to me? Three? hum!
Coupled to nature.
Upon the maidenhead of our affairs.
Thou know'st I do: I call'd thee by thy name.
Quicken a rock, and make you dance canary
the bear half dined on the gentleman: he's at it
Are come from visiting his majesty.
Always obedient to your grace's will,
Who in rebellion with himself will have
Exeunt
A year before: it is not to be question'd
Why, thou hast put him in such a dream, that when
That smooth'st it so with king and commonweal!
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes?
Troth, no; no more than reason.
Wilt thou draw near the nature of the gods?
the boy never need to understand any thing; for
'Tis love I bear thy glories makes me speak.
Well, I will forget the condition of my estate, to
Mine honour into lust, to take away
I fear me, he will scarce be pleased withal.
That in the field lie slain: of princes, in this number,
I love Lavinia more than all the world.
Ten the clock there. Give me a calendar.
My gown.
And gladly shunn'd who gladly fled from me.
Alas, my lord,
ANTIPHOLUS
That we have better men. But, hit or miss,
To wear away this long age of three hours
The images of revolt and flying off.
O Corin, that thou knew'st how I do love her!
Know'st thou Fluellen?
SCENE III. The same. Another room.
Frank nature, rather curious than in haste,
Tell me what more thou know'st.
womanhood and the witness of a good conscience,
to thy gait in a semi-circled farthingale. I see
I have no mind to Isbel since I was at court: our
Unseen, unvisited, much to our shame.
search: there I shall find Falstaff: I shall be
Yet do not suddenly, for it may grieve him.
To death with mortal joy.
To fly the boar before the boar pursues,
May happily bring forth. But who comes here?
Where? yonder? that's Deiphobus. 'Tis Troilus!
To give the heir and daughter of Lord Scales
Where is my lord protector? I have sent for these
I'll use to carry thee out of this place.
Fall asleep, or hearing, die.
As we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it.
And you whose places are the nearest, know
Do faithful homage and receive free honours:
It was much like to do: he answer'd, 'Tush,
I would not have your free and noble nature,
Besides the things that we have heard and seen,
Thy grace being gain'd cures all disgrace in me.
Created, for his rare success in arms,
Shalt have the air at freedom: for a little
And, Prince of Wales, so dare we venture thee,
Churl, upon thy eyes I throw
to lay an amiable siege to the honesty of this
He hath wronged me, Master Page.
Conspired with that irregulous devil, Cloten,
As thou art a knave, and no knave. What an
Both? one? or neither? Neither can be enjoy'd,
Do, good my lord, your citizens entreat you.
service,--Why dost thou stop my mouth?
O my dear Silvia! Hapless Valentine!
Go, bid her hide him quickly from the duke.
And follow Marcius.
ensemble: de hand, de fingres, de nails, de arm, de
Speak of it: stay, and speak! Stop it, Marcellus.
I saw him fumble with the sheets and play with
A lover's ear will hear the lowest sound,
Please your highness,
Let it be a quarrel between us, if you live.
But shift away: there's warrant in that theft
What should I do?
You are sent for to the senate:
To pray for her? what, is she crying out?
Take heed you dally not before your king;
I am stuffed, cousin; I cannot smell.
My dear-loved cousin, and my dearer lord?
I wrote him Imogen was slain: 'tis strange:
Barns and garners never empty,
Gentles, perchance you wonder at this show;
Nay, prithee, dispatch: the gentleman is half
Inclinable to honour and advance
But now the substance shall endure the like,
So hath the business that I come to speak of.
All lost! to prayers, to prayers! all lost!
Exit
Was not incensed by his subtle mother
Exeunt
Go home to bed, and like the owl by day,
'Tis not so much worth; but I hope I was perfect: I
Here comes the furious Tybalt back again.
sexton hath reformed Signior Leonato of the matter:
speak with him till after dinner.
Still it cried 'Sleep no more!' to all the house:
Spoke scantly of me: when perforce he could not
But, fly I hence, I fly away from life.
No, he must not.
Because we bid it. Say, is it done?
Exeunt
shall be a mock for his truth, and what truth can
Strike up, pipers.
Is it? I will then address me to my appointment.
A year's age on me.
Repair me with thy presence, Silvia;
Ne'er feels retiring ebb, but keeps due on
It shall be to the Duchess of Alencon,
We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have
I am the turned forth, be it known to you,
Then have I substance too.
The elected deer before thee?
In his rage and his wrath,
Even to the uttermost, as I please, in words.
Both in his private conscience and his place,
appointed for the wrestling, and they are ready to
Sitting in the sun under the dove-house wall;
Which whilst it was mine had annex'd unto't
That shall civil sayings show:
Than that a sister, by redeeming him,
Shall do a courtesy to our wrath, which men
Here I have a pilot's thumb,
From this day to the ending of the world,
Antony, Antony! Help, Charmian, help, Iras, help;
The king's coming; I know by his trumpets. Sirrah,
Madam, your penance done, throw off this sheet,
Else could you not have motion; but sure, that sense
'Tis love you cavil at: I am not Love.
Mistress Ford, by my troth, you are very well met:
It is your grace's pleasure to commend;
Repast them with my blood.
My friends,
Out of my sight! thou dost infect my eyes.
As thou dost ruminate, and give thy worst of thoughts
Had you been as wise as bold,
Walk under his huge legs and peep about
This is a thing
with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
As now she might have done,
Than to abhor himself: even he drops down
Nay, it shall ne'er be said, while England stands,
Thou art sure to lose; and, of that natural luck,
court, shepherd?
A treacherous army levied, one midnight
And he hath promised to dismiss the powers
think, to liberty: yet am I better
There have been,
More suffer and more sundry ways than ever,
But, alack, my hand is sworn
'tis not good that children should know any
Whose wisdom hath her fortune conquered:
That envied his receipt; even so most fitly
controversy: there was, for a while, no money bid
In God's name, I'll ascend the regal throne.
None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
Which can interpret further: only, I say,
Thou that art like enough, through vassal fear,
A pair of worthier sons.
Had number'd thirteen years.
More out of malice than integrity,
Exit
I shall obey his will.
Being scarce made up,
Yet do I not use my horse for my mistress, or any
Virtue is beauty, but the beauteous evil
O, when, I say, I look'd on Richard's face,
What you will, Monsieur Jaques.
Our other healthful members even to that sense
concavities of it is not sufficient; for, look you,
What Tranio did, myself enforced him to;
Let go the hand of that arch-heretic;
I did not see you since you sent me hence,
Which if thou please to hide in this true bosom.
For which you are a traitor to the people.
He speaks home, madam: You may relish him more in
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Whose dimpled smiles from fools exhaust their mercy;
Be thou so too; and so break off your talk,
But in the presence of the prioress:
Gentlemen, enough of this: it came in too suddenly;
Which, if thou hast consider'd, let us know
Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble mind abrook
I come to thee for charitable licence,
Already at my house.
Philemon, ho!
Now must I hide his body in some hole,
Ah, know you not the city favours them,
You give your wife too unkind a cause of grief:
Gain, be my lord, for I will worship thee.
Away, and glister like the god of war,
Alas, sir, be patient. What say you sir? I am
'Gainst us, our lives, our children, and our heirs.
above deck.
This passes!
What say you? Hence,
SCENE II. Friar Laurence's cell.
Wind, rain, and thunder, remember, earthly man
But let her rest in her unrest awhile.
That judge hath made me guardian to this boy:
in love. If thou wilt, go with me to the alehouse;
From general excrement: each thing's a thief:
O, we are undone, both we and ours for ever!
Were not in fault, for she was beautiful;
With what a majesty he bears himself,
When I shall think: or Phoebus' steeds are founder'd,
Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall:
I am enjoin'd by oath to observe three things:
A Death's face in a ring.
what hacks are on his helmet! look you yonder, do
He is your brother, lords, sensibly fed
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
I charge thee on thy allegiance.
it, of you and rosemary, that it would do you good
It may be so; but yet my inward soul
I cannot love him: let him send no more;
Ye lie, hostess: Bardolph was shaved and lost many
Ay; or else 'twere hard luck, being in so
Tickling a parson's nose as a' lies asleep,
I summon your grace to his majesty's parliament,
The crows to peck the eagles.
Till time and I think meet.
I'll send some packing that yet think not on it.
Come, sirs, convey me to the block of shame;
SPRING.
all mine: and, Kate, when France is mine and I am
I'll tell you in a little. The great duke
Here comes your uncle.
And our affairs from England come too late:
You have right well conceited. Let us go,
Have with you, mine host.
Say that you love me not, but say not so
To have a look of such a worthy mistress.
Of the right reverend Cardinal of York.
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
Nay, by your leave, hold your hands; though I know
Whoe'er helps thee, 'tis thou that must help me:
Which cannot hear a lady's feeble voice,
Heaven take my soul, and England keep my bones!
Fetch me this herb; and be thou here again
The merciful construction of good women;
Than so much loss of time.
But she as far surpasseth Sycorax
In a bad quarrel slain a virtuous son.
Exit
Enter JOHN MORTIMER and HUGH MORTIMER
Yes, just.
The first departing of the king for Ireland.
Have stood to charity, and display'd the effects
Away, old man; give me thy hand; away!
And show the reason of our Caesar's death:
Put up your swords; you know not what you do.
Of Caesar seek your honour, with your safety. O!
Enter LORD FITZWATER
O God, that seest it, do not suffer it!
Why, sir, I gave the money for the rope.
And then, to dry them, gavest the duke a clout
Henceforth I vow it shall be so for me.
What is your will?
Will never grant this forfeiture to hold.
Whose shouts and claps out-voice the deep mouth'd sea,
Now, nurse, what news? What hast thou there? the cords
Which now mistrust no parcel of my fear,
Though women all above:
all's done.
To some man else, as this dead man doth me.
I say, the proclamation!
Il est trop difficile, madame, comme je pense.
Ere you were queen, yea, or your husband king,
Well, may you see things well done there: adieu!
Hie you, make haste, for it grows very late.
She's dead, my queen:
My lord,--
That what we have we prize not to the worth
That his own hand may strike his honour down
Withdraw yourselves, and leave us here alone.
But, if there be, or ever were, one such,
the wonder of it, came missives from the king, who
indict the author of affectation; but called it an
To bring false generations: they are co-heirs;
Antiochus from incest lived not free:
It issues from the rancour of a villain,
My brave spirit!
Against some part of Poland.
Sent he to Macduff?
Dogs! cowards! dastards! I would ne'er have fled,
With cautelous baits and practise.
His master's son, as worshipful as he terms it,
And barbarism itself have pitied him.
Come not within these doors; within this roof
Do right unto this princely Duke of York,
The enemies' drum is heard, and fearful scouring
And this withal.
Why, what you will.
I will meditate the while upon some horrid message
with an iron wit, and put up my iron dagger. Answer
To be depender on a thing that leans,
And graceless traitor to her loving lord?
Of all my buried ancestors are packed:
lack of a dinner, if there live any thing in this
Exit
Cromwell, I did not think to shed a tear
Unto their losses twenty thousand crowns;
Their services to Lord Timon: his large fortune
O Nell, sweet Nell, if thou dost love thy lord,
SCENE II. The highway, near Gadshill.
Ay, that he razed.
Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him
Provide thee two proper palfreys, black as jet,
Having my freedom, boast of nothing else
Witness our too much memorable shame
Has paid his men their wages: he ne'er drinks,
And over-joy of heart doth minister.
Governs Lord Angelo; a man whose blood
the way? Is it sad, and few words? or how? The
An if the devil come and roar for them,
The numbers of our host and make discovery
Wreck'd as homeward he did come.
I doubt not but his friends will fly to us.
To fright you thus, methinks, I am too savage;
[Aside to DUMAIN]  Loves her by the foot,--
All places yield to him ere he sits down;
Either thou art most ignorant by age,
To any one, nor taken sustenance
Their several virtues and effects.
I see no reason why a king of years
Charms this report out.
Ay, gracious sovereign; they are so link'd in
But let him swear so, and he shall not stay,
strange bed-fellows. I will here shroud till the
than to be beadle. But, master, I'll go draw up the
Have I not heard great ordnance in the field,
To do what? to do what? let her say
And when we have our naked frailties hid,
When violence assails us.
To save me from the danger that might come
Know you the man?
Believe me, you are marvellously changed.
I urged you further; then you scratch'd your head,
What is Dictynna?
Good boy, tell him I come.
Clarence, excuse me to the king my brother;
upon him, sir, a strange picklock, which we have
For there was never yet fair woman but she made
No, by my troth, not so much as will serve to
And leads me to your eyes, where I o'erlook
He hears naught privately that comes from Troy.
Be you constant in the accusation, and my cunning
Let there be sung 'Non nobis' and 'Te Deum;'
A banish'd traitor.
was there ever man a coward that hath drunk so much
ANTIPHOLUS
monstrous watch is at the door.
Nothing, but let him have thanks. Demand of him my
Alas, good Cassius, do not think of him:
We'll fit the kid-fox with a pennyworth.
Nay, then thou wilt starve, sure; for here's nothing
Unswear faith sworn, and on the marriage-bed
As cause had call'd you up, have held him to
Command, I mean, of virtuous chaste intents,
And the red glow of scorn and proud disdain,
Fashion it thus; that what he is, augmented,
And seek for sorrow with thy spectacles?
But fare thee well, there is a ducat for thee:
Thy voice is thunder, but thy looks are humble.
Soft you; a word or two before you go.
[Sings]
And nothing pleaseth but rare accidents.
Will you know them then?
He hath been search'd among the dead and living,
Let's choose executors and talk of wills:
Even to madness. 'Tis here, but yet confused:
Every one.
Who should deny it? Come, young one, I like the
Why
A queen in jest, only to fill the scene.
That lowliness is young ambition's ladder,
Render to me some corporal sign about her,
De elbow.
Host, will you go?
Could not believe but that I was in hell,
tap: said I well, bully Hector?
Till Angiers and the right thou hast in France,
And with those hands, that grasp'd the heaviest club,
I'll kiss thy foot; I'll swear myself thy subject.
We'll teach you--
office of love, but in all the accoutrement,
None, madam.
Welcome to Troy! now, by Anchises' life,
My masters, know you that.
When I inform'd him, then he call'd me sot,
For when my outward action doth demonstrate
My woeful self up in a mourning house,
great matter.
But taking note of thy abhorr'd aspect,
All men but Proteus.
the prince discovered to Claudio that he loved my
--Not that I loved Caesar less, but that I loved
the image of it leaves him he must run mad.
The pride upon them, that their very labour
And, like a hungry lion, did commence
Whose ignorant credulity will not
Why he hath made the ewe bleat for the lamb;
And teaches me to kill or hang myself:
Ay, I do so.
Exeunt
Your wondrous rare description, noble earl,
We shall not marry till thou bid'st us.
That have beheld me give away myself
No, let me speak; and let me rail so high,
For Margaret my queen, and Clifford too,
Did violate so itself.
[Within]  Let me come in, and you shall know
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
What else?
This same should be the voice of Friar John.
With her that hateth thee and hates us all,
now with, 'knocking at the gate'?
But here comes Antony.
What shall he have that kill'd the deer?
Brutus, my country's friend; know me for Brutus!
Whether a maid so tender, fair and happy,
Or I will shake thee from me like a serpent!
Why am I a fool?
seeming, Audrey:--as thus, sir. I did dislike the
You that be noble; help him, young and old!
What I shall think is good?--The princess!
That I might sing it, madam, to a tune.
Exeunt TRANIO, Pedant, and BAPTISTA
When turtles tread, and rooks, and daws,
What wrong is this unto the prince your son!
I thought you would not back again.
When she has so much English.
Give ground, if you see him furious.
For I should melt at an offender's tears,
Where?
See who it is: and, now the battle's ended,
Betwixt the wind and his nobility.
At your employment; at your service, sir;'
Some words there grew 'twixt Somerset and me;
graver purpose, I hope.
I beseech your honour to hear me one single word.
Where hope is coldest and despair most fits.
And now, my lord protector, view the letter
The Constable of France.
My lord. Griffith, farewell. Nay, Patience,
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
Out of her favour, where I am in love.
Offending charity: if but a dozen French
stammer, that thou mightst pour this concealed man
it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
had now, for putting the hand in the pocket and
The like himself. Therefore give me no counsel:
But gather we our forces out of hand
So the fool follows after.
For thus deluding you.
Enter DEMETRIUS and HELENA, running
Some dreadful story hanging on thy tongue?
say if the importance were joy or sorrow; but in the
Thrown upon this shore. I oped the coffin,
Resume that spirit, when you were wont to say,
Ay, and by heaven, one that will do the deed
Enter SIR ANDREW, SIR TOBY BELCH, and FABIAN
I would his troubles likewise were expired,
SCENE III. Auvergne. The COUNTESS's castle.
As pure as sin with baptism.
I know a lady in Venice would have walked barefoot
His liberal eye doth give to every one,
Whose honour heaven shield from soil!--even he
I'll tell him yet of Angelo's request,
To carry into Flanders the great seal.
I conjure thee, by all the parts of man
Fie, fie! no thought of him:
O, you sir, you, come you hither, sir: who am I,
Where are my slippers? Shall I have some water?
when my lust hath dined,--which, as I say, to vex
Good morrow, kind Sir Eglamour.
Cool it with a baboon's blood,
While that the armed hand doth fight abroad,
If one so rude and of so mean condition
Comparative for your virtues, to be styled
And be a happy mother by the deed.
With the Moor, say'st thou? Who would be a father!
Which she hath praised him with above compare
With written pamphlets studiously devised,
The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain.
thank thee. Let them say 'tis grossly done; so it be
Consider further,
Thus did he answer me: yet said, hereafter
So that the art and practic part of life
He said that Proteus your son was meet,
Away with these disgraceful wailing robes!
Exeunt LEONATO and ANTONIO
By computation and mine host's report.
o'clock, early at Gadshill! there are pilgrims going
Enter OBERON
Ay, the woman's maid of the house.
That lord that counsell'd thee
But know not how to do it.
Brook is his name?
Get linen: now this matter must be look'd to,
To melt in showers: thy grandsire loved thee well:
Than I of yours;
Have letters from me to some friends that will
Find this grand liquor that hath gilded 'em?
France is a dog-hole, and it no more merits
Are they not now upon the western shore.
Taking up the letter
Think of this life; but, for my single self,
And if that ever my low fortune's better,
king himself.
So well as by reflection, I, your glass,
offenders, and let Time try: adieu.
Brave Titinius!
Lest, being like one of heaven, the devils themselves
for the place where; where, I mean, I did encounter
The like from him.
Help, son! help, Signior Baptista!
Nay, this way, man: see where the huntsmen stand.
Rugby, come to the court with me. By gar, if I have
And we cast away moan:
If he were mad, he would not plead so coldly:
is to be a counterfeit; for he is but the
O Eglamour, thou art a gentleman--
That quicken even with blowing. O thou weed,
No, my lord.
Made me to fan you thus, but the gods made you,
We have descried, upon our neighbouring shore,
Ay, and good next day too.
there's not a nose among twenty but can smell him
I would not have thee linger in thy pain: So, so.
like. Our posts shall be swift and intelligent
As have thy love? Why dost not speak to me?
death: do not satisfy your resolution with hopes
SCENE III. The same. The Forum.
O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet!
cannot hale them together. For Andrew, if he were
The noble Brutus, thrusting this report
and all brokers-between Pandars! say, amen.
belly's as cold as if I had swallowed snowballs for
And nature must obey necessity;
You, that did void your rheum upon my beard
for the name of king? To cabin: silence! trouble us not.
if you tickle us, do we not laugh? if you poison
Make large confusion; and, thy fury spent,
Is sorer than to lie for need, and falsehood
Noble Ventidius! Well;
O me, what hast thou done?
What is your name?
Unfit to live or die: O gravel heart!
My lord, wise men ne'er sit and wail their woes,
When I do rouse me in my throne of France:
writ, and can never find what names the writing
Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
To answer twenty thousand such as you.
Till Pericles be dead,
The sun is high, and we outwear the day.
May it please your highness to resolve me now;
dregs of the storm be past.
Scurvy knave! I am none of his flirt-gills; I am
And what is Edward but ruthless sea?
The king my father, sir, has drunk to you.
The more shame for him that he sends it me;
Double six thousand, and then treble that,
BIRON tears the letter
I do beseech you,
He fell sick suddenly, and grew so ill
Wear gold: and no man that hath a name,
I pray you, go with me.
That no man is the lord of any thing,
Let us first see peace in Athens: there is no time
As if he had been loosed out of hell
to your English.
Things done well,
I'll give my jewels for a set of beads,
Still ending at the arrival of an hour.
Bending their expedition toward Philippi.
That if about this hour he make his way
For he is, sure, i' the island.
Who is the sink o' the body,--
It will have blood; they say, blood will have blood:
He runs at IAGO  IAGO, from behind, stabs EMILIA, and exit
My bond to wedlock, or my love and duty,
But none can cure their harms by wailing them.
Good morrow, carriers. What's o'clock?
As Priam was for all his valiant sons.
Exit Second Messenger
I like it well: good Grumio, fetch it me.
Exeunt BERTRAM and PAROLLES
With envious looks, laughing at thy shame,
From this time forth I never will speak word.
the middle and but one half of what he was
has left with thee: if this be a horseman's coat,
They love and dote on; call him bounteous Buckingham,
Not worth the time of day. It pierced me through;
And you be not, hang, beg, starve, die in
Then deputy of Ireland; who removed,
Wert thou environ'd with a brazen wall.
For the whole state, I would put mine armour on,
Rise up a knight.
To England, if you will.
The hearts of men, they must perforce have melted
I had no mind
Of this good day and of this gracious meeting,
I hope I shall as soon be strangled with a halter as another.
Our former hatred, so thrive I and mine!
To be a queen in bondage is more vile
Gentleman,
Would bark your honour from that trunk you bear,
Their counsels and their cares, digest things rightly
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
Than Rhodope's or Memphis' ever was:
Look'st thou pale, France? do not let go thy hand.
I left him well.
But the strong base and building of my love
In your rich wisdom to excuse or hide
Let us from it.
That e'er I put between your holy looks
Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
Sit, my preserver, by thy patient's side;
Would he were a Trojan!
Seem to break loose; take on as you would follow,
Finds brotherhood in thee no sharper spur?
But how of Cawdor? the thane of Cawdor lives,
With this, my lord, myself have nought to do.
What other
Thy fortunes. How! that I should murder her?
Why, 'tis good; it is the right of it; it must be
Exit
Faith so infringed, which such zeal did swear?
That's fouler.
That you are well acquainted with yourself,
De chin.
should not think of God; I hoped there was no need
To her unworthiness: it nothing steads us
Then give me leave that I may turn the key,
lies the jest.
Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA
To go about my preparation.
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
But with such general warranty of heaven
What, canst not rule her?
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Why, then she's mine. Sweet, let me see your face.
Trust me, a mad host. Follow, gentlemen, follow.
On whom, as in despite, the sun looks pale,
Is now in durance, at Malvolio's suit,
Sweet love, I see, changing his property,
killed and eaten in these wars? But how many hath
The plot is laid: if all things fall out right,
Is it your dear friend that is thus in trouble?
Speak loudly for him.
Gods, gods! 'tis strange that from their cold'st neglect
But to confirm my curses! Could I meet 'em
You must not dare, for shame, to talk of mercy;
come, put it on; keep thee warm. Now, afore me, a
O, by no means: she mocks all her wooers out of suit.
Well, I'll hear it, sir: yet you must not think to
Wouldst thou be window'd in great Rome and see
The juice of Egypt's grape shall moist this lip:
Oft our displeasures, to ourselves unjust,
That France must vail her lofty-plumed crest
Well, sir, I thank you.
Some of my mistress' marks upon my shoulders,
Not knowing why.
Thy mother was a piece of virtue, and
Come, mistress, now perforce we will enjoy
Exeunt
Leave me, friends.
Exeunt
The valiant never taste of death but once.
To alter this, for counsel is but vain.
But keep a farm and carters.
I am dumb.
And, dying, mention it within their wills,
Well, I will love, write, sigh, pray, sue and groan:
Is rounded with a sleep. Sir, I am vex'd;
A visor for a visor! what care I
Change not your offer made in heat of blood;
I Richard's body have interred anew;
The wisdom of your duty, fair Bianca,
Old Salisbury, shame to thy silver hair,
Whate'er thou art, for thy good caution, thanks;
As you do love, fill to your mistress' lips,--
that she would have followed her exile, or have died
There is a law in each well-order'd nation
And, acting this in an obedient hope,
If you speak truth, for their poor mistress' sake;
His answer was, he would unto the stews,
That I did love, for now my love is thaw'd;
What fool hath added water to the sea,
And bite thy tongue, that slanders him with cowardice
That would be son to great Antiochus.
Have any way your good deserts forgot,
Being criminal, in double violation
Thou art not conquer'd; beauty's ensign yet
Besides the applause and approbation To which,
Shall tax my fears of little vanity,
I crave your pardon. Soon at five o'clock,
Unveiling
In hand and hope of action: but we do learn
Wilt thou revenge?
Enter EMILIA
Out of his charity, being then appointed
'Whoop, do me no harm, good man.'
Your fortune stood upon the casket there,
I'll not deny him any thing I have,
After these ways; so, it will make us mad.
Nay, if they lead to any ill, I will leave them at
My good Lysander!
Try all the friends thou hast in Ephesus;
What, are you both pleased?
Any silk, any thread,
My liege! my lord! but now a king, now thus.
A man well known throughout all Italy.
of his country.
none of his skains-mates. And thou must stand by
Be certain, nothing truer; 'tis no jest
O earth, I will befriend thee more with rain,
And can say nothing; no, not for a king,
So many fathom down precipitating,
One vial full of Edward's sacred blood,
drunk me would have bought me lights as good cheap
Rome shall remedy this.
Ingrateful, savage and inhuman creature!
It is; you lie, you lie:
If you will then see the fruits of the sport, mark
What he hath won, that hath he fortified:
A book of prayers on their pillow lay;
which hath two letters for her name fairly set down
Is kindling coals that fires all my breast,
Would I had been by, to have helped the old man!
shoulder, and with his royal finger, thus, dally
And be in Padua here Vincentio's son,
[Aside]  She shines not upon fools, lest the
That thou began'st to twist so fine a story?
Being so father'd and so husbanded?
And I say the earth was not of my mind,
And will you pale your head in Henry's glory,
Come, go with us, we'll bring thee to our crews,
Ay, and their colours, often borne in France,
Both of his truth and him, which was too far,
That Caesar and his senate must redress?
myself, that I was the prince's jester, that I was
A brother's dead love, which she would keep fresh
That would with treason wound this fair land's peace!
The Duke of Norfolk sends you word by me,
And that, my lord, I shall be loath to do:
And we must do it wisely.
You say he is so fell.
More pleasant, pithy and effectual,
The field of Golgotha and dead men's skulls.
By lack of stooping,--
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and a British Lord
Is your displeasure with the king.
To make them instruments of fear and warning
Yes.
And each hour's joy wrecked with a week of teen.
Those are pearls that were his eyes:
I have been to you a true and humble wife,
Dove-feather'd raven! wolvish-ravening lamb!
The Volsces have much corn; take these rats thither
Good night.
And that great minds, of partial indulgence
You're sad, Signior Balthazar: pray God our cheer
Throw me again.
Nay, he will answer the letter's master, how he
If power change purpose, what our seemers be.
Why, very well; I telling you then, if you be
Hymen hath brought the bride to bed.
Exit one with the Players
Then why should he despair that knows to court it
Great men have reaching hands: oft have I struck
And, being no more in debt to years than thou,
Yet I am doubtful for I am mainly ignorant
And hold you ever to our special drift;
And from the ladder-tackle washes off
She is indeed perfection.
By my white beard,
So will ye, I am sure, that you love me.
Enter LAERTES and OPHELIA
And blister you all o'er!
My lord, we always have confess'd it.
Come, help to bear thy master;
Why, by the verities on thee made good,
In the election of a sir so rare,
Here they skirmish again
come something nearer.
Perform'd, my Ariel; a grace it had, devouring:
They sleep
Presuming on their changeful potency.
Thou shalt ere long be free.
What peace you'll make, advise me: for my part,
Most useful for thy country.
Shake he his weapon at us and pass by.
More matter, with less art.
Thaliard, adieu!
Betwixt ourselves let us decide it then.
Madam, please you peruse this letter.--
And, when he's sick to death, let not that part of nature
Now, Titinius! Now some light. O, he lights too.
From whom he bringeth sensible regreets,
Patience, Prince Saturninus.
first and now, was and is, to hold, as 'twere, the
And in this borrow'd likeness of shrunk death
And hug it in mine arms.
Upon the next tree shalt thou hang alive,
I know thou canst; and therefore see thou do it.
Ye turn me into nothing: woe upon ye
We'll give them present audience. Go, and bring them.
Thou art true and honest; ingeniously I speak.
So many hours must I tend my flock;
Be that thou hopest to be, or what thou art
Launcelot,' or 'good Gobbo,' or good Launcelot
It is a manacle of love; I'll place it
And, touching hers, make blessed my rude hand.
These boys know little they are sons to the king;
God for his mercy! what a tide of woes
I will seem friendly, as thou hast advised me.
To inlay heaven with stars.
When from thy shore the tempest beat us back,
Italy have a fairer table which doth offer to swear
Exeunt
Even in the height and pride of all his glory,
I prize it not a straw, but for mine honour,
Mark it, Cesario, it is old and plain;
For never shall you lie by Portia's side
Borne with the invisible and creeping wind,
Is nobler than attending for a cheque,
nobility, in his proper stream o'erflows himself.
With amplest entertainment: my free drift
Giving letters
Where is my lord the king?
To do what service am I sent for hither?
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman;
Through you, increase our wonder and set up
Therefore, sweet Proteus, my direction-giver,
I cannot live to hear the news from England;
Let's hear. O fie! the treble jars.
have by underhand means laboured to dissuade him from
This is the cause that I, poor Margaret,
Till fields and blows and groans applaud our sport!
base fear, offer to betray you and deliver all the
And banding themselves in contrary parts
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
How long within this wood intend you stay?
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
It is to be all made of sighs and tears;
Have I enjoy'd the golden dew of sleep,
doth bear the yoke.'
Boy, stand aside. Caius Ligarius! how?
shoulder, the mole in my neck, the great wart on my
They talk aside
With Clifford and the haught Northumberland,
Petruchio, stand by a while.
For violent fires soon burn out themselves;
To-morrow will I send.
Their thimbles into armed gauntlets change,
To plant unrightful kings, wilt know again,
Exeunt
At your request a little from himself.
The fewer men, the greater share of honour.
'Too young' and 'the next year' and ''tis too early.'
Betwixt the stout Lord Talbot and the French.
SCENE IV. Antium. Before Aufidius's house.
And turn them out of service. If they do this,--
prithee, let my meat make thee silent.
'Tis well that thou hast cause
If you desire to know the certainty
Through whom the gods have shown their power; that can
He is drunk now: where had he wine?
hot venison pasty to dinner: come, gentlemen, I hope
And she in mild terms begg'd my patience,
Go, some of you convey him to the Tower.
Our Lady help my lord! he'll be forsworn.
All the occurrence of my fortune since
Well then, to work: our cannon shall be bent
His face's own margent did quote such amazes
Myrmidons are no bottle-ale houses.
O! thy vile lady!
To part the glories of this happy day.
Is't possible?
Swoons rather; for so bad a prayer as his
Never go home; here starve we out the night.
They say 'A crafty knave does need no broker;'
I spy.
To what tune pleased his ear; that now he was
Enter CORIOLANUS in a gown of humility, with MENENIUS
I stumbled when I saw: full oft 'tis seen,
Marry, your manhood now--
actors by the scroll. Masters, spread yourselves.
Not Cassio kill'd! then murder's out of tune,
How now, blown Jack! how now, quilt!
To show some reason, of no little force,
Ford, on whom to-night I will be revenged, and I
run away from the Jew, I should be ruled by the
This torture should be roar'd in dismal hell.
persuasion can with ease attempt you, I will go
And show'd me silks that he had bought for me,
'Tis woful.
So wish I, I might thrust thy soul to hell.
What stay had we but Clarence? and he's gone.
And the desire of the nobles.
He shall not live.
But though my cates be mean, take them in good part;
How under my oppression I did reek,
One on 's father's moods.
My tongue should catch your tongue's sweet melody.
and blood has not offended the king; and so your
How painted? and how out of count?
In this place we left them:
To groan and sweat under the business,
I offer'd to awaken his regard
good moon-calf.
That's more than we know.
Durst not presume to look once in the face.
But did you never swear, and break an oath?
There is, betwixt that smile we would aspire to,
A gentle riddance. Draw the curtains, go.
And what's her history?
And men in dangerous bonds pray not alike:
This is the woman, but not this the man.
Before thy face repent!
Took it in snuff; and still he smiled and talk'd,
DON
weight to re-answer, his pettiness would bow under.
SCENE I. Troy. A street.
palaces, treason; and the bond cracked 'twixt son
As fast lock'd up in sleep as guiltless labour
I shall offend, either to detain or give it. The
Away, you Ethiope!
desires, and my requests, and my petitions, to eat,
If damned custom have not brass'd it so
Subdued the Saxons, and did seat the French
But you have power in me as in a kinsman.
Here's one, a friend, and one that knows you well.
Well, you'll answer this one day. Fare ye well.
Now, my co-mates and brothers in exile,
O, farewell, dear Hector!
By all the battles wherein we have fought,
evidence; therefore stand aside.
intendment or brook such disgrace well as he shall
Hadst thou no poison mix'd, no sharp-ground knife,
Unto my cell.
The merry songs of peace to all his neighbours:
it.
Noble heroes, my sword and yours are kin. Good
For quick accumulation of renown,
bloods between fourteen and five-and-thirty?
Armies of pestilence; and they shall strike
And poison it in the source; and the first stone
Why, then from Ireland come I with my strength
Why doth your highness look so pale and wan?
Round about her tomb they go.
to come unarmed to my tent, and to procure
It is a day turn'd strangely: or betimes
Thrives in our idleness.
And bid them bring the trumpets to the gate;
Re-enter DUKE OF YORK, with KING RICHARD II, and Officers bearing the regalia
To-night we'll wander through the streets and note
Poor Clarence did forsake his father, Warwick;
I love thee more and more: think more and more
Since arms avail not now that Henry's dead.
I would she had bestowed this dotage on me: I would
I would be blind with weeping, sick with groans,
There shall we consummate our spousal rites.
What would you have me do? go to the wars, would
Small joy have I in being England's queen.
To think I shall lack friends? Secure thy heart;
I made unto the noise; when soon I heard
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites;
Speakest thou from thy heart?
true, without any slips of prolixity or crossing the
If she deny, Lord Hastings, go with him,
To Northumberland
Whilst emulation in the army crept:
No, sir; it is legs and thighs. Let me see the
the world: here comes the man you mean.
Come, Kate, sit down; I know you have a stomach.
Of more preeminence than fish and fowls,
Standing like stone with thee.
And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate
with me: I'll be horn-mad.
I would have all well betwixt you.
Be counterpoised with such a petty sum!
The boy hath taught us manly duties: let us
My foolish rival, that her father likes
Freshly on me: 'tis surely for a name.
Kisses her
Hear me, for I will speak.
been executed; I have stood on the pillory for geese
Biron is like an envious sneaping frost,
Thou worse than any name, read thine own evil:
The Jove of power make me most weak, most weak,
I am going to visit the prisoner. Fare you well.
Wilt lay the leaven on all proper men;
I see, lady, the gentleman is not in your books.
None but the fool; who labours to out-jest
The soul and body rive not more in parting
Though enemy, lost aim, and could not?
Never to lie and take his natural rest
Exit Citizen
for I am sure I shall turn sonnet. Devise, wit;
Confess the truth, and say by whose advice
When presently through all thy veins shall run
lingered here by some accident: wherein none can be
And what art thou, thou idle ceremony?
A sister driven into desperate terms,
Hath turn'd his balls to gun-stones; and his soul
He brings you figs.
Enter THALIARD
Give us some music; and, good cousin, sing.
Incertain lookers on. What were more holy
A threadbare juggler and a fortune-teller,
These are complements, these are humours; these
That even now he cries aloud for him.
When thou wast here above the ground, I was
Enter MONTJOY
But a harsh hearing when women are froward.
Then after to her father will I break;
Of my whole course of love; what drugs, what charms,
Is still a dying horror!
Can Oxford, that did ever fence the right,
First were we sad, fearing you would not come;
If you love an addle egg as well as you love an idle
Moreover, he hath left you all his walks,
Speak; I am bound to hear.
There's many a beast then in a populous city,
My lord, this is impiety in you:
And so, I pray you, tell him: furthermore,
tall fellow of thy hands and that thou wilt be
Art thou my calf?
And every one his love-feat will advance
Re-enter Iago
Nor of them look for such observances
Ha! not for the wide world.
And every man hence to his idle bed;
for that: and yet, to say the truth, reason and
What, had he so?
Which I with some unwillingness pronounce:
excellent stomach.
Or vainly comes the admired princess hither.
Better to leave undone, than by our deed
Nor shall not now: for in companions
The ground's the lowest, and we are half way there.
Love thee as our commander and our king.
O thou well skill'd in curses, stay awhile,
Take up the bodies: such a sight as this
Which troubles oft the bed of blessed marriage,
Cannot be!
To France, sweet Suffolk: let me hear from thee;
body, horse to ride, and weapon to wear;
Worthy Timon,--
as pale as any clout in the versal world. Doth not
And weigh'st thy words before thou givest them breath,
Will you shog off? I would have you solus.
Tell him of Nestor, one that was a man
Have my old feet stumbled at graves! Who's there?
Ne'er let my heart know merry cheer indeed,
So levied as before, against the Polack:
will think of thee at court.
penned, I have taken great pains to con it. Good
Lest, being miss'd, I be suspected of
You, gracious madam, to unthink your speaking
But sorrow flouted at is double death.
O, who hath done this deed?
I'll be sworn,
Farewell, dear father!
And let all sleep? while, to my shame, I see
He should, for that, commit your godfathers:
That monsters it, or your fore-vouch'd affection
That they had gather'd a wise council to them
Dead in his bed, my lord; Gloucester is dead.
O, let them keep it till thy sins be ripe,
God bless you, Captain Parolles.
You are not worth the dust which the rude wind
any man to answer it that breaks his band; one that
What's this? mutton?
As it doth me--a nobler sir ne'er lived
SCENE I. France. Before Angiers.
He would kiss you twenty with a breath.
[Aside]  This is his pardon, purchased by such sin
Have I affected wealth or honour? speak.
sunken, which you have not, an unquestionable
Which time will bring to light in smooth
Hath any well-advised friend proclaim'd
Father, I charge thee, by thy reverence,
Come, Marcus; come, kinsmen; this is the way.
Her face, like heaven, enticeth thee to view
Vilely compiled, profound simplicity.
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
Hath blown that vice in me: I must repent.
Here's Agamemnon, an honest fellow enough and one
With these your white enchanting fingers touch'd,
Be there in person?
Why, so he doth, now he delivers thee
In the sweet pangs of it remember me;
And of opposed natures.
Ay, Casca; tell us what hath chanced to-day,
Why, as men do a-land; the great ones eat up the
SATURNINUS reads the letter
Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
I have persuaded him the youth's a devil.
Cinna, where haste you so?
Why, this was known before.
I take thy groat in earnest of revenge.
Twenty adieus, my frozen Muscovits.
So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up
It is too heavy for your grace to wear.
Sir, the event
Subjects may challenge nothing of their sovereigns;
Mistress!
Writ o' both sides the leaf, margent and all,
Just of his colour. What if we do omit
Nobly doom'd!
May blame, but not control. Who's there? the traitor?
Hurt him! his body's a passable carcass, if he be
That you might kill your stomach on your meat
Breathless and bleeding on the ground. Art
Than die for this.
Plutus himself,
So sacred as it is, I have done sin:
Can you eat roots, and drink cold water? no.
As I can of those mysteries which heaven
I will be satisfied: deny me this,
All things that we ordained festival,
A gracious king that pardons all offences
What, man! ne'er pull your hat upon your brows;
We two saw you four set on four and bound them, and
ladies' flesh at a million a dram, you cannot
But by reflection, by some other things.
Treachery! Seek it out.
But where's the money?
to utter it.
He has done nobly, and cannot go without any honest
On business to my brother Cassius.
To mow 'em down before me: but if I spared any
I have found great love amongst them. O my sweet,
They say that Love hath not an eye at all.
Purge all infection from our air whilst you
That could be brought to bodily act ere Rome
He has it now, and by his looks methink
My people do already know my mind,
The letter, as I live, with all the business
Tush, that was but his fancy, blame him not;
Always a villain's office or a fool's.
Well, I must leave her company.
Where shall we meet i' the morning?
your father.
I'll over then to England with this news,
And try the argument of hearts by borrowing,
And where's that valiant crook-back prodigy,
Run, run, Orlando; carve on every tree
Thy mother gave thee when thou suck'dst her breast,
So soon did lose his seat and all at once
From the murderer's gibbet throw
From thence to England; where I hope ere long
My patience to his fury, and am arm'd
His tears pure messengers sent from his heart,
Or 'What good love may I perform for you?'
You swore to me, when I did give it you,
Be not denied access, stand at her doors,
And that no lawful means can carry me
High emperor, upon my feeble knee
For parting my fair Pyramus and me!
Hear the crier.
Counts it your weal he have his liberty.
Till, like a boy, you see him cringe his face,
I have no power to speak, sir.
Crown him and say 'Long live our emperor!'
Kills TAMORA
Be not with mortal accidents opprest;
No occupation; all men idle, all;
Therefore use none: let Romeo hence in haste,
Ah, good father,
For then this land was famously enrich'd
idiot, patch!
As is the ooze and bottom of the sea
And they are all about his majesty.
not on thy baseness court-contempt? Thinkest thou,
Through the sharp hawthorn blows the cold wind.
Applies an asp
Qualtitie calmie custure me! Art thou a gentleman?
[Reads]  'If any man of quality or degree within
By earth, she is not, corporal, there you lie.
You have been a scourge to her enemies, you have
Lock up my doors; and when you hear the drum
Lives in these touches, livelier than life.
I thank you, valiant Cassio.
and the son and heir of a mongrel bitch: one whom I
How now, my Lord of Worcester! 'tis not well
But sever'd in a pale clear-shining sky.
Should say myself offended, and with you
hour: observe him, for the love of mockery; for I
Between the floods of Sala and of Elbe;
Defy them then, or else hold close thy lips.
Go thou and seek the crowner, and let him sit o' my
And my integrity ne'er knew the crafts
Come, death, and welcome! Juliet wills it so.
Since I may say 'Now lie I like a king.'
In a great pool a swan's nest: prithee, think
but with all duteous love
Plague on't, an I thought he had been valiant and so
'Lack, to what end?
I know it by this mark. He loved me dearly,
And, not reform'd, may prove pernicious.
Which you know cannot err: the love I bear him
Hang on her temples like a golden fleece;
Some welcome for the mistress of the house.
Thou hast said enough.
I am weary; yea, my memory is tired.
and this man out of prison?
Yet you desire to marry.
Sing willow, willow, willow:
Ah, Humphrey, this dishonour in thine age
What bastard doth not? Who will go with me?
If he were putting to my house the brand
Madman and beggar too.
Stand bare and naked, trembling at themselves?
shall you have a shorter journey to your desires by
Tell on thy mind; I say thy child shall live.
Yea, brother Richard, are you offended too?
I must become a borrower of the night
To cast into my teeth. O, I could weep
And I, that haply take them from him now,
Why, then, your brown bastard is your only drink;
Study me how to please the eye indeed
Unto an enemy of craft and vantage,
Such a mad marriage never was before:
Our fears do make us traitors.
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat,
Peace to his soul, if God's good pleasure be!
The lady shrieks, and well-a-near
These hands are not more like.
The brother blindly shed the brother's blood,
We then have done you bold and saucy wrongs;
almost most absolute Alexas, where's the soothsayer
Ay, to be murder'd by his enemies.
The grief hath crazed my wits. What a night's this!
Dreaming on both; for all thy blessed youth
For this one night; which, part of it, I'll waste
Cousin of York, we institute your grace
Lest, in her greatness, by some mortal stroke
And his opposite, the youth, bears in his visage no
If you should tender your supposed aid,
Her tears will pierce into a marble heart;
to the same diseases, healed by the same means,
shall have no more eyes to see withal than a cat.
Enter DUCHESS OF YORK
Come, we'll have you merry: I'll bring you where
Methought all his senses were lock'd in his eye,
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' the working, Mark you,
To cry amen to that, thus we appear.
With lies well steel'd with weighty arguments;
Call forth Nathaniel, Joseph, Nicholas, Philip,
Say you?
The noble Earl of Suffolk also lies.
ANTIPHOLUS
If this, or more than this, I would deny,
To be the father unto many sons.
The raging rocks
Please you to interpose, fair madam: kneel
correction, there is not many of your nation--
And do thee favours with my royal hands.
Stain'd with the guiltless blood of innocents,
Whose tongue shall ask me for one penny cost
Sweet king! the bishop hath a kindly gird.
When thou wakest, if she be by,
Worthy his frowning at: their discipline,
Thy wit is a very bitter sweeting; it is a most
Right joyful of your reformation.
Let me see.
Here to make good the boisterous late appeal,
Alone I did it. Boy!
Ay, sir.
Welcome to Rome, renowned Coriolanus!
Lord, how we lose our pains!
As art and practise hath enriched any
After my speech is ended.
That heaven and earth may strike their sounds together,
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet--
Do you think, my lords,
Between two girls, which hath the merriest eye;
Labouring to save his life, and would not rather
A noble duke, in nature as in name.
Sir, I shall tell you. With a kind of smile,
Making a man a god. 'Tis known, I ever
Nay, go not from me; I will follow thee.
Exit
She now shall be my sister, not my wife.
And, for unfelt imagination,
From henceforth bear his name whose form thou bear'st:
Are you so desperate grown, to threat your friends?
To the which place a poor sequester'd stag,
Mistress and master, you have oft inquired
Fain would I go to chafe his paly lips
O, you shall be exposed, my lord, to dangers
The noble thanes do bravely in the war;
As if his life lay on't.
Tarry, Petruchio, I must go with thee,
Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood,
caparisoned like a man, I have a doublet and hose in
'tis a sickness denying thee any thing; a death to
Exeunt
Pray, innocent, and beware the foul fiend.
What the conditions of that league must be.
Thou hast spoken right, 'tis true;
Here stands the spring whom you have stain'd with mud,
And falls on the other.
[Aside]  You are a fool granted; therefore your
Pray, then, foresee me one.
The love of Valentine and love Sir Thurio?
Are you a maid?
Exeunt Hostess and Boy
Scandal'd the suppliants for the people, call'd them
What 'her' is this?
See, Caesar! O, behold,
And shall I have?
O plague right well prevented! so will you say when
That stands upon your royal grandsire's bones,
Your patience so predominant in your nature
I'll come by Naples. Draw thy sword: one stroke
Peace! she sings.
turquoise; I had it of Leah when I was a bachelor:
Exit HERMIA
For so your father charged me at our parting,
estimation in the world; but did see him do as
little page, of all loves: her husband has a
Enter, in conquest, with drum and colours, EDMUND,  KING LEAR and CORDELIA, prisoners; Captain, Soldiers,  and c
I do believe it; for they pass'd by me
In that I'll war with you.
And wedded be thou to the hags of hell,
She had disposed with Caesar, and that your rage
We'll quickly rouse the traitors in the same.
To his new kingdom of perpetual rest.
And help to set a head on headless Rome.
Your angry choler on your enemies.
And seen the desolation of your streets:
You had a motive for't.
paid to Master Brook; his horses are arrested for
The George, profaned, hath lost his holy honour;
Peace, ho! I bar confusion:
Ho! hearts, tongues, figures, scribes, bards,
Nay, he's at two hands with me, and that my two ears
What do you mean by this haunting of me?
What is more cordial. Nay, I prethee, take it;
Ay, that I had not done a thousand more.
the very stream of his life and the business he hath
Your business of the world hath so an end,
And, uncle, so will I, an if I live.
him: I am glad of it.
Signior Hortensio, I have often heard
Exit
That sore to ride before him to the field.
belly, ashore at Windsor? How shall I be revenged
All ignorant that soul that sees thee without wonder;
Shed seas of tears and ne'er be satisfied!
You are merry, my lord.
How now? moody?
I will not bandy with thee word for word,
Lawn as white as driven snow;
And those occasions, uncle, were of force:
For nought but provender, and when he's old, cashier'd:
Lovel and Ratcliff, look that it be done:
The corn o' the storehouse gratis, as 'twas used
imports it.
Ay, of my pigeons, sir; nothing else.
So please you, sir, their speed
carelessly, as they did in the golden world.
That, to deserve well at my brother's hands,
Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe,
Bereft of ships and men, cast on this shore.
To the great love I bear you,--
Be gone to-morrow; and be sure of this,
Guards seize BERTRAM
We cannot live on grass, on berries, water,
You know your father's temper: at this time
To be to thee this night a torch-bearer,
We will read it, I swear.
Hail, mortal!
that he is?
the fleet: I would he had boarded me.
Under pretence to see the queen his aunt--
are but lightly rewarded.
Come, come, we are friends: let's have a dance ere
hose! a scarlet cloak! and a copatain hat! O, I
Flourish. Exeunt
And therefore cannot have the hearts to do it.
Could he say less?
So I am, to let him live.
And here pronounce free pardon to them all
birth and virtue gives you heraldry. You are not
SCENE I. KING JOHN'S palace.
Take thrice thy money; bid me tear the bond.
In that and all things will we show our duty.
For I was train'd up in the English court;
What, is there a maid with child by him?
'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
cowards! Let them speak: if they speak more or
For lack of tread are undistinguishable:
From action and adventure?
And driven into despair an enemy's hope,
Uncomfortable time, why camest thou now
What, the sword and the word! do you study them
Ay, worthy Menenius; and with most prosperous
And never from this palace of dim night
Can make seem pleasing to her tender years?
Though Rome be therefore angry: Mulmutius made our laws,
within, sir. I will construe to them whence you
Thou wert but a lost monster.
Exit
Prays, and destroys the prayer; no midway
That does infect the land: with which they moved
For Edward's sake; and see how he requites me!
'The slaves are ours:' so do I answer you:
But let my trial be mine own confession:
they never meet but there's a skirmish of wit
Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery,
I kiss the wall's hole, not your lips at all.
Helena is here at hand;
I will inform your father.
Bounds in my father's;' by Jove multipotent,
The great Apollo suddenly will have
For when they hold 'em, you would swear directly
A son of mine, which long I have not seen.
What hath this day deserved? what hath it done,
Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin,
Gentlewoman, my lady calls.
Courteous destroyers, affable wolves, meek bears,
You'll win two days upon me.
jealousy man: she leads a very frampold life with
Prithee, nuncle, tell me whether a madman be a
If thou delight to view thy heinous deeds,
Wanting his manage; and they will almost
I am all the daughters of my father's house,
Yet one time he did call me by my name:
Re-enter Servant
Forbear awhile; we'll hear a little more.
Let us entreat you stay till after dinner.
Out of this fearful country!
For how can I help them, and not myself?
O Cassius, you are yoked with a lamb
Give me your hand, sir.
Gives me superfluous death.
events in the womb of time which will be delivered.
The party 'gainst the which he doth contrive
And left thee to the mercy of the law.
O, my dear lord, lo, where your son is borne!
Brother, I go; I'll win them, fear it not:
Good night, good brother.
In underprizing it, so far this shadow
Out of those many register'd in promise,
So.
I had other things to have spoken with her too from
Whose heart the accustom'd sight of death makes hard,
Who, trimm'd in forms and visages of duty,
This pearl she gave me, I do feel't and see't;
You rise to play and go to bed to work.
That you to-day promised to tell me of?
Of the same house Publius and Quintus were,
To bear me company and go with me:
Why you proceeded not against these feats,
As low as she would wish it.
To pardon Mutius and to bury him.
This expedition was by York and Talbot
I knit my handercher about your brows,
they list.
I hold it ever,
He is a very serpent in my way;
Go back again, thou slave, and fetch him home.
You are the queen, your husband's brother's wife;
but to see a noise that he heard, and is to come again.
And hereabouts he dwells,--which late I noted
After the bloody fray at Wakefield fought,
Graybeard, thy love doth freeze.
Edward and Clarence. O, what cause have I,
Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at death
grows bald by nature.
High be our thoughts: I know my uncle York
Exeunt
On what occasion, God he knows, not I,
Where small experience grows. But in a few,
daughters thy mothers: for when thou gavest them
thou art sad; get thee a wife, get thee a wife:
fellow of this temper, Kate, whose face is not worth
For I did play a lamentable part:
an ell and three quarters, will not measure her from
How now, ambitious Humphry! what means this?
for this uncivil rule: she shall know of it, by this hand.
Makest thou this shame thy pastime?
I mean, the business is not ended, as fearing to
This is my daughter's jointure, for no more
That ever holds: who riseth from a feast
Had witchcraft in't; he grew unto his seat;
I do commend to your content:
Exeunt
Yea, wherefore should she not?
I see old Gaunt alive; O, then, my father,
And am right sorry that I must report ye
than to hear you. If you be not mad, be gone; if
Exit
And I to sigh for her! to watch for her!
Why, mistress, sure my master is horn-mad.
Till the last step have brought me to my love;
How old art thou?
That were excusable, that, and thousands more
In time we hate that which we often fear.
Most reverend and grave elders, to desire
'Tis threefold too little for carrying a letter to
Has desperate want made!
Upon a pleasing treaty, and have hearts
You, Polydote, have proved best woodman and
My country's high pyramides my gibbet,
You would have thought the very windows spake,
And so obsequious will thy father be,
Sir, I shall not be slack: in sign whereof,
I'll give a thousand pound to look upon him.
eyes; there was speech in their dumbness, language
Should make desire vomit emptiness,
There stuck no plume in any English crest
Be sure you be not loose; for those you make friends
The eyes of young and old. Care not for me
When I was green in judgment: cold in blood,
What art thou, fellow?
Indeed, I am not John of Gaunt, your grandfather;
To marry Princess Margaret for your grace,
What else?
O Jesu, my lord the prince!
That never set a squadron in the field,
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, and Forces, with scaling-ladders, their drums beating a dead march
Enter FLAVIUS and two Senators
I am soldier to, and will abide it with
And am moreover suitor that I may
Thou dost make possible things not so held,
when we are old?
Melting the darkness, so their rising senses
And fearing he would rise, he was so virtuous,
Now, by the death of Him that died for all,
Thank your majesty.
If brothers.
And do it with all thy heart.
I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy stol'n name
Poictiers and Anjou, these five provinces,
Save those to God, that run before our business.
Who will go to hazard with me for twenty prisoners?
All my engagements I will construe to thee,
Coriolanus in Corioli?
His corporal motion govern'd by my spirit.
Engaging and redeeming of himself
Constant in spirit, not swerving with the blood,
Err in report of us.
The issue is embracement: Ajax, farewell.
O monstrous beast! how like a swine he lies!
My message must return from whence it came.
How much more elder art thou than thy looks!
so, so, so. We'll go to supper i' he morning. So, so, so.
Feed on her damask cheek: she pined in thought,
and there's my harvest-home.
Gentlemen, for shame, forbear this outrage!
An I were so apt to quarrel as thou art, any man
Here, on her breast,
Unto the rigour of severest law.
Can my sides hold, to think that man, who knows
SCENE II. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Gloves as sweet as damask roses;
Richard, I bear thy name; I'll venge thy death,
Who, all for want of pruning, with intrusion
I shall not be hang'd now, although I would;
hasten thy trial; which if--Lord have mercy on thee
And so I hear he doth account me too;
Sir Valentine, whither away so fast?
No, madam; for so long
Lords, with one cheerful voice welcome my love.
Ah, where's my man? give me some aqua vitae:
Behold her topp'd?
many nicer needs; the last was the greatest, but
Now shame upon you, whether she does or no!
Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,
Peter, stay at the gate.
To-morrow you set on.
There's order given for her coronation:
He that will give good words to thee will flatter
Good company; with them shall Proteus go:
two hundred crowns.
Thus will I save my credit in the shoot:
I am sorry, Cymbeline,
And out of all these to restore the king,
Of grievous penalties; in lieu whereof,
As strange as the thing I know not. It were as
One that still motions war and never peace,
[Aside]	Two truths are told,
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
love; wherein, by the colour of his beard, the shape
Enter CORIN
Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill:
Sink in apple of his eye.
As you intended well.
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the king
The penitent instrument to pick that bolt,
commission for more heads: if this law hold in
Captain Macmorris, I beseech you now, will you
Re-enter QUINCE
It is to see a nobleman want manners.
[Sings]  'O, the twelfth day of December,'--
Cassibelan: I do not say I am one; but I have a
It must not bear my daughter.
The witch in Smithfield shall be burn'd to ashes,
With a refined traveller of Spain;
Is not my sorrow deep, having no bottom?
The best actors in the world, either for tragedy,
than my noble and natural person together with the
What, with Lysander?
To say 'not guilty:' mine integrity
That which so often you did bid me steal.
To tutor thee in stratagems of war,
Evermore showering? In one little body
Prithee, Kate, let's stand aside and see the end of
So big, to hold so much; they lack retention
The deep-revolving witty Buckingham
My lord, you shall o'er-rule my mind for once.
At point to sink for food. But what is this?
The count is neither sad, nor sick, nor merry, nor
'Ay, by gogs-wouns,' quoth he; and swore so loud,
How canst thou urge God's dreadful law to us,
About a certain question in the law
you of some conveyance: in the house you cannot
O, answer not, but to my closet bring
Now keep your holy word: go meet the French,
Through a straight lane; the enemy full-hearted,
Help me, my women,--we must draw thee up:
ere he has me.
good jests of him. Pray you, uncle, tell Mistress
Lord Longaville is one.
Play judge and executioner all himself,
And here's to right our gentle-hearted king.
We three are but thyself; and, speaking so,
Madam,
No, Antony, take the lot: but, first
By her high forehead and her scarlet lip,
No, not a man comes for redress of thee;
What, pray you, became of Antigonus, that carried
There is, sure, another flood toward, and these
Old men and beldams in the streets
married man more honourable than the bare brow of a
The horn, I say. Farewell.
My lord,
Scaling his present bearing with his past,
Upon the dull earth dwelling:
Passion, I see, is catching; for mine eyes,
Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God
My good and gracious Lord of Canterbury.
loose-wived, so it is a deadly sorrow to behold a
Why are you grown so rude? what change is this?
How now, madam!
Inestimable stones, unvalued jewels,
If I fly, Marcius,
My meaning in't, I protest, was very honest in the
Good faith, I'll prove him,
Dismiss his power, he means to visit us,
Were feverous and did tremble.
What said our cousin when you parted with him?
my wish hath a preferment in 't.
A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight.
Look for the news that the Guildhall affords.
No, my lord.
Then thus she says; your behavior hath struck her
Are their males' subjects and at their controls:
To such whose place is under us, requires
To his surname Coriolanus 'longs more pride
one another and shook their heads; but, for mine own
And wait the season and observe the times
You are at point to lose your liberties:
To give my tongue that heat to ask your help;
That was the whip of your bragg'd progeny,
As thou lovest me, Camillo, wipe not out the rest of
Can you, my Lord of Winchester, behold
I do but keep the peace: put up thy sword,
That in the ocean seeks another drop,
so miserable but a man may be true.
Shall quite strike off all service I have done,
A thing divine, for nothing natural
Yet shall you have all kindness at my hand
The gates made fast! Brother, I like not this;
But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
His highness having lived so long with her, and she
Look, what I will not, that I cannot do.
I wish some ravenous wolf had eaten thee!
Let's purge this choler without letting blood:
Which drizzled blood upon the Capitol;
To knaves and all approachers: 'tis most just
Enter DON JOHN
Think therefore on revenge and cease to weep.
Then yield thee, coward,
The other way's a Mars. Bid you Alexas
I'll have no halves; I'll bear it all myself.
Open their congeal'd mouths and bleed afresh!
Let your study
But wherefore grieve I at an hour's poor loss,
And pursy insolence shall break his wind
bear this significant
The king, the king!
Talk not of France, sith thou hast lost it all.
therefore never flout at me for what I have said
Will it serve for any model to build mischief on?
Whose state so many had the managing,
O, that it were as like as it is true!
no true traveller: you are more saucy with lords
Doth make your honour of his body's hue,
A man no mightier than thyself or me
We do; and long to know each other worse.
Which else should free have wrought.
My sons would never so dishonour me:
To every article.
If you do keep your promises in love
It wears, sir, as it grows.
that they come from my niece, and that she's in
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
In every one of these no man is free,
For with the dark, poor thief, I'll steal away.
Hid in an auger-hole, may rush, and seize us?
[Aside to ISABELLA]   That's well said.
And then, to purge his fear, I'll be thy death.
And yet no man like he doth grieve my heart.
The issue of your proper wisdoms rate,
Paris is dirt to him; and, I warrant, Helen, to
Become thy great birth nor deserve a crown.
Give this to the 'pothecary,
As fat as tame things: one good deed dying tongueless
Exeunt
What earthy name to interrogatories
That hath so long been resident in France?
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage,
Do you go back dismay'd? 'tis a lost fear;
might be knighted. I shall think the worse of fat
What's that?
I'll make one in a dance, or so; or I will play
For what reason, I beseech you?
Are mighty gossips in this monarchy.
Why he cannot abide a gaping pig;
Not wake him in his slumber. A beggar's book
As when mine empire was your fellow too,
Requite him for your father.
Was ever known so great and little loss
wounds upon him.
When sects and factions were newly born:
God bless your worship!
the humour of it is too hot, that is the very
Told me, the king, provoked by the queen,
Alas! how should you govern any kingdom,
your sake, Kate, why you undid me: for the one, I
RICHARD
And in my conscience do repute his grace
See, who comes here?
Such as I am, I come from Antony:
So wilfully dost spurn; and force perforce
certain Venetians; and thither comes the bauble,
Ay, a token from Troilus.
He shall think, by the letters that thou wilt drop,
The roof o' the chamber
Thou art proud, Apemantus.
I conjure thee by Rosaline's bright eyes,
No more but, plain and bluntly, 'To the king!'
A world of earthly blessings to my soul,
I am a fool, and full of poverty.
When you have said 'she's goodly,' come between
The form of plausive manners, that these men,
'Tis not the many oaths that makes the truth,
To be hanged.
Or raise myself, but keep my wonted calling?
acceptance, whose trial shall better publish his
and fifty tattered prodigals lately come from
Now sways it this way, like a mighty sea
Peace, fool: he's not thy kinsman.
With the sweet silent hours of marriage joys
plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
You have displaced the mirth, broke the good meeting,
My shame and guilt confounds me.
All of companionship.
Well, cousin. I told you a thing yesterday; think on't.
Ride you this afternoon?
Sweet aunt, be quiet; 'twas against her will.
As well as I am able. The rich stream
Peace, I pray you. Now let us understand. There is
Yes, brother, you may live:
That banish what they sue for; redeem thy brother
[Aside to SEBASTIAN]  Let it be to-night;
O,'tis fair play.
For your fair sakes have we neglected time,
For with long travel I am stiff and weary.
Shout. CHARLES is thrown
Let them from forth a sawpit rush at once
It shall be so.
You may, I may not; you are yet unsworn.
Come, give me your flowers, ere the sea mar it.
In corporal sufferance finds a pang as great
I wonder of their being here together.
Were I the general, thou shouldst have my office
Makes you think so.
There is some space.
Which is for me less easy to commit
Her virtues graced with external gifts
As is the sepulchre in stubborn Jewry,
That my keen knife see not the wound it makes,
Give me the daggers: the sleeping and the dead
Woe me! for what?
Truly, however else.
Datchet-lane: they took me on their shoulders; met
I never loved my brother in my life.
any thing I want: offer me no money, I pray you;
No marvel, my lord, though it affrighted you;
By still dispraising praise valued in you;
Ha!
Every one lets forth his sprite,
Ingrateful fox! 'tis he.
Though they be never so ridiculous,
Shamest thou to show thy dangerous brow by night,
For a fair victory.
Her amber hair for foul hath amber quoted.
her to trial. Thine, in all compliments of devoted
Thoughts of great value, worthy cogitations.
which sold the towns in France; he that made us pay
Or do you almost think, although you see,
Death, that hath suck'd the honey of thy breath,
Why do they run away? this is a knavery of them to
In voices well divulged, free, learn'd and valiant;
Varro and Claudius!
a pin, if the other three were in. Here comes one
Or else you like not of my company.
What incidency thou dost guess of harm
A daughter, and a goodly babe,
Well have we done, thrice valiant countrymen:
Glittering in golden coats, like images;
I beseech your majesty, give me leave to go;
thy old father Menenius does! O my son, my son!
For that I woo, thou therefore hast no cause,
Tranio, you jest: but have you both forsworn me?
To have turn'd my leaping-time into a crutch,
Enter FENTON
My heart hath melted at a lady's tears,
For being more stone than it? O royal piece,
[Aside]  I knew her well; she was a midwife.
speak to thee in drink but in tears, not in
Let's stand close, and behold him.
Cup us, till the world go round,
'Tis Nestor right. Now play him me, Patroclus,
Exeunt Oxford and Somerset, guarded
Well excused:
Thou dost speak masterly:
Of thy nativity! I would the milk
In pity of our aged and our youth,
Is my strict fast; I mean, my children's looks;
Exeunt
conversation, that he dares in this manner assay me?
As if they vow'd some league inviolable:
My Lord of Gloucester, now ye grow too hot:
But, will the king
I pray you, tell me what you meant by that.
Ever to get a boy.
I pray you, have your remembrance, child,
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Exit from above
I'll yet follow
is more than the wit, for the greater hides the
horn-pipes. I must have saffron to colour the warden
Why, there it goes: God give his lordship joy!
endeavours; for then we wound our modesty and make
I'll not be struck, my lord.
William Lord Hastings had pronounced your part,--
For I am Welsh, you know, good countryman.
Thy nerves are in their infancy again
From the noise of our own drums.'
command you, in his highness' name, to repair to
You are sent for to the Capitol. 'Tis thought
I have, my lord, at my lodging, the same suit he
Romeo, I come! this do I drink to thee.
From off my hands, here in the view of men
The enmity and discord which of late
impaired, but all disordered. Who is next?
Whom I encounter'd as the battles join'd.
within it, reclined on a couch. A barge lying
much more handsome than fine. One speech in it I
SCENE III. The Council-Chamber.
Why, who cries out on pride,
Beheld his tears, and laugh'd so heartily,
And charity chased hence by rancour's hand;
Of all the world I loved and to him put
And I from Mantua, for a gentleman,
Of all their loyalties: wherein, although,
The garboils she awaked; at the last, best:
To bathe in fiery floods, or to reside
My masters, are you mad? or what are you? Have ye
ANTIPHOLUS
Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter;
That I must bear a part.
I once more take my leave.
Come now; what masques, what dances shall we have,
The Page whistles
Now, God save thy life!
purse; I could have filed keys off that hung in
Against all noble sufferance.
With letters of your love to her at large.
I should be as merry as the day is long;
Exit
SCENE III. The same. A street.
beshrew them!
Ere I was risen from the place that show'd
Which tie him to an answer. Our wishes on the way
'Tis not the first time you were overshot.
Of your dead queen.
And you, monarch!
Knocking within
And those of true condition, that your subjects
When with a happy storm they were surprised
Although thou hast been conduct of my shame.
If thou be he, then art thou prisoner.
God-a-mercy, old heart! thou speak'st cheerfully.
Known but by letter: thither write, my queen,
And purge it to a sound and pristine health,
The flatness of my misery, yet with eyes
Thy nimble, sulphurous flashes! O, how, Lychorida,
That was his mistress.
For my part, I'll not trouble thee with words.
Safely stowed.
And bow'd like bondmen, kissing Caesar's feet;
barbarous. Do you not educate youth at the
I have no great devotion to the deed;
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA severally
gallowses! I speak against my present profit, but
For through this laund anon the deer will come;
me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
That thus you should proceed to put me off,
So worthy as thy birth.
her belly already: tis yours.
For we'll create young Arthur Duke of Bretagne
Mustardseed.
A horse! a horse! my kingdom for a horse!
the falcon her bells, so man hath his desires; and
Come on, then;
But what of this? are we not all in love?
Enter GOWER
friend! thy face is valenced since I saw thee last:
And in my voice most welcome shall you be.
Whose own hard dealings teaches them suspect
Gentlemen, content ye; I am resolved:
It is not for prisoners to be too silent in their
For nothing canst thou to damnation add
Loud shouts and salutations from their mouths,
O Jesu, I have heard the prince tell him, I know not
Where it perceives it is but faintly borne.
The swords of soldiers are his teeth, his fangs;
another style.
made all the unbaked and doughy youth of a nation in
yet would have dark deeds darkly answered; he would
O rarely base!
For him thou labour'st by thy flight to shun
Which I left with her?
[Aside]  O heavens, this is my true-begotten father!
Yes, py'r lady; if he has a quarter of your coat,
Yet, when I saw it last, it was besmear'd
My mother gave it me.
She speaks this in the infirmity of sense.
Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
I cannot do it; yet I'll hammer it out.
Dissembling harlot, thou art false in all;
and spends what he borrows kindly in your company.
To satisfy your highness and the entreaties
A day in April never came so sweet,
Lord, how wise you are!
A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire;
Why, sadness is one and the self-same thing, dear imp.
That bloody spoil: thou slave, thou wretch, thou coward!
Of as great size. Ween you of better luck,
The greatness he has got. I hourly learn
None durst come near for fear of sudden death.
You will demand of me why I do this?
Here will we sit and let the sounds of music
Thou art too brief: I will the second time,
brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
A dower, my lords! disgrace not so your king,
To draw him from his holy exercise.
That still would manage those authorities
Here, sir; as foolish as I was before.
If death be so apparent, then both fly.
Whereto we are bound? alack, or we must lose
This way, my lord; the castle's gently render'd:
As fitting best to quittance their deceit
Exeunt severally
Thou diest for it.
That mercy which true prayer ought to have.
Most like;
O, he's a lovely gentleman!
Richard except, those whom we fight against
I took no more pains for those thanks than you take
Than let him so be lost. O most kind maid,
And woes by wrong imaginations lose
Or shall we think the subtle-witted French
And shall I fly? O if you love my mother,
Lascivious Goth, and all the bitterest terms
He's bravely taken here. He stole from France,
'Gainst my captivity. Hail, brave friend!
Shall we shog? the king will be gone from
And beat them backward home.
I hold me highly honour'd of your grace:
Is that a wonder?
Not hold thee of our blood, no, not our kin,
ANTIPHOLUS
Not here in presence.
Exit Gaoler
To wail the tide, as her mother doth.
wears for his sake; and he, a marble to her tears,
Madam, we will attend your grace.
Compare her face with some that I shall show,
Flourish
the silly cheat. Gallows and knock are too powerful
To honour me as thy king and sovereign,
knife, tape, glove, shoe-tie, bracelet, horn-ring,
should speak truly, little better than one of the
Than was his loss, to course your flying flags,
from man to dragon: he has wings; he's more than a
Art not ashamed to look upon this beard?
Hold, Peter, hold! I confess, I confess treason.
By both your wills.
estimation of them; 'tis a condition they account
Not so, sweet  lady: but too mean a servant
Faith, sir, a' has an English name; but his fisnomy
walking and other actual performances, what, at any
In what case?
Scoff on, vile fiend and shameless courtezan!
That when they hear the Roman horses neigh,
Does by their own insinuation grow:
But there's but one in all doth hold his place:
Pray God my news be worth a welcome, lord.
Being o'er shoes in blood, plunge in the deep,
'Tis e'en so: the hand of little employment hath
Fairies, black, grey, green, and white,
'Tis like the commons, rude unpolish'd hinds,
That Herod's head
Hark you, my friend; you said you could not beg.
A good demand.
And far surmounts our labour to attain it.
Ay; what's the matter?
Her mother, ever strong against that match
'Tis like, my lord, you will not keep your hour.
Dashing the garment of this peace, aboded
is a better soldier than rashness. Tell him we
he is a very valiant trencherman; he hath an
How earnestly he cast his eyes upon me!
As a man sorely tainted, to his answer,
And for whose death we in the world's wide mouth
Go show your slaves how choleric you are,
Thy spite on mortal flies:
Proffers not took reap thanks for their reward.
Why, then, your other senses grow imperfect
Making defeat on the full power of France,
Be that thou know'st thou art, and then thou art
Farewell: my blessing season this in thee!
Nay, you might keep that cheque for it till you met
To punish this offence in other faults:
And that it comes from old Andronicus,
Pleads he in earnest? look upon his face;
Why, man?
Think, we had mothers; do not give advantage
Thou art an unjust man in saying so: thou or any
Wound the loud winds, or with bemock'd-at stabs
Who, almost dead for breath, had scarcely more
Here comes Ancient Pistol and his wife: good
For 'tis of aspics' tongues!
EPILOGUE
I would set an ox-head to your lion's hide,
Soldiers, sir.
But 'tis my presence that doth trouble ye.
Nay, hated too, worse than the great'st infection
I might call him
And thank us for your trouble.
Re-enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, and seconds the  Britons: they rescue CYMBELINE, and exeunt. Then re-enter LUCIUS, and IACHIMO, with IMOGEN
Exit
Report thy parentage. I think thou said'st
I'll utter what my sorrows give me leave.
Remain, remain thou here
Here's a letter come from yond poor girl.
To kiss.
Sweetest nut hath sourest rind,
Of fighting men they have full three score thousand.
Most goddess-like prank'd up: but that our feasts
This haste hath wings indeed.
But she loves you?
You are too cold; if you should need a pin,
Still thus, and thus; still worse!
Had Henry got an empire by his marriage,
Rescue, my Lord of Norfolk, rescue, rescue!
In blood of those that had encounter'd him:
In such a love so vile a lout as he.
Who tells me true, though in his tale lie death,
Bespoke him thus; 'Contaminated, base
Alarums. MATTHEW GOFFE is slain, and all the rest. Then enter CADE, with his company.
I thank your grace; the gift hath made me happy.
The knowledge of themselves.
All the world's a stage,
Lives he?
A Talbot! a Talbot! cried out amain
And the gods doom him after!
I come to him.
in some of your coats for two pence.
Offering him a root
And do as adversaries do in law,
When on the gentle Severn's sedgy bank,
What we so fear'd he had a charge to do.
your servant.
Or else I'll call my brother back again,
drop and liquor fishermen's boots with me; I warrant
Fetch from false Mowbray their first head and spring.
Their liberties are now in arms; a precedent
Than from true evidence of good esteem
No; and swears she never will: that's her torment.
In the protection of his son, her brother,
Fellow, wilt thou bestow thy time with me?
Either our history shall with full mouth
Confound your hidden falsehood, and award
Let Paris bleed; 'tis but a scar to scorn;
I am to pray you not to strain my speech
Which is most faint: now, 'tis true,
The violent carriage of it
The image of a wicked heinous fault
I say thou hast belied mine innocent child;
If grace had bless'd thee with a fairer life.
On Wednesday next, Harry, you shall set forward;
If whilst I live she will be only mine.
Therefore, I pray you, stand not to discourse,
Tis now the very witching time of night,
'Warwick, revenge! brother, revenge my death!'
Bethink thee on her virtues that surmount,
Ecoutez: comment etes-vous appele?
A soldier's a man;
ANTIPHOLUS
Madam, I go with all convenient speed.
For thy solicitor shall rather die
And then, sir, she bears away. Our fraughtage, sir,
Must not be toss'd and turn'd to me in words,
Rather, lost more. And by this hand I swear,
tapsters: they will draw you, Master Froth, and you
With bats and clubs? The matter? speak, I pray you.
Of greater time than I shall show to be.
Exit
Why, she that bears the bow.
Get you hence instantly, and tell those friends,
Did not great Julius bleed for justice' sake?
Call it a travel that thou takest for pleasure.
only receive this villanous wrong, but stand under
Uncouple in the western valley; let them go:
it his that finds it.
be endured! Well, go your way to her, for I see
Why, how now, Cromwell!
A great-sized monster of ingratitudes:
Even then that sunshine brew'd a shower for him,
At your noble pleasure.
Dangerous conceits are, in their natures, poisons.
Why hopest thou so? 'tis better hope he is;
Do come with words as medicinal as true,
Then give my tongue like leave to love my head.
and such-like trifles, nothing comparing to his;
her, rather than she will bate one breath of her
An older and a better soldier none
That we shall see and know our friends in heaven:
SCENE III. Court of TITUS's house. A banquet set out.
O, that the slave had forty thousand lives!
Leonatus' friends.
I'd set my ten commandments in your face.
That's the next to do.
Bloody thou art, bloody will be thy end;
That, Escalus.
Well, you temporize with the hours. In the
Two thousand ducats by the year of land!
That's true; make no question of that. 'Two and
He cuts their throats
of the south, the guts-griping, ruptures, catarrhs,
Would they make peace? terrible hell make war
Re-enter HELICANUS, LYSIMACHUS, and MARINA
Which else no worldly good should draw from me.
An onion will do well for such a shift,
The fig of Spain!
I am dying, Egypt, dying:
And greets your highness dearly.
Would poison were obedient and knew my mind!
I do hate a proud man, as I hate the engendering of toads.
The bloody office of his timeless end.
To stay him from the fall of vanity:
Hector, Deiphobus, Helenus, Antenor, and all the
Not that I have the power to clutch my hand,
Yet pause awhile:
And, whereas I was black and swart before,
Each battle sees the other's umber'd face;
Do rush upon us as their hungry prey.
I pray you, let-a me speak a word with your ear.
The earldom of Hereford, and the moveables
She will taste as like this as a crab does to a
Ay, forsooth; and then you may come and see the
Ha! sayest thou so?
You know not what it is.
And send for money for 'em.
I'll charm his eyes against she do appear.
Therefore paucas pallabris; let the world slide: sessa!
Exampled by this heinous spectacle.
danger of kibes?
You that are blamed for it alike with us,
I love you the better: the hearers may cry, Amen.
And being join'd, I'll thus your hopes destroy;
His words were 'Farewell mistress;' nothing else.
Sweets to the sweet: farewell!
Think it an altar, and thy brother Troilus
I'll eat nothing, I thank you, sir.
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
I'll be your foil, Laertes: in mine ignorance
And death unloads thee. Friend hast thou none;
Whereof the world takes note: come, come, disclose
Good lady,
For one being fear'd of all, now fearing one;
Apollo flies, and Daphne holds the chase;
O king Stephano!
And I the elder and more terrible:
But to speak that in words which his eye hath
No;
Shall rue the hour that ever thou wast born.
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Bring me the fairest creature northward born,
And ask no other dowry with her but such another jest.
I would have made them skip: I am old now,
To no apparent likelihood of breach,
At our importance hither is he come,
Make haste, I say.
Rebellion, flat rebellion!
And to conclude, we have 'greed so well together,
A shepherd's daughter,
Embolden'd with the glory of her praise,
No, my good lord; it is more pleasing stuff.
A ramping fool, to brag and stamp and swear
I would he knew that I had saved his brother!
Very well: you being then, if you be remembered,
Where how he did prevail I shame to speak,
Hath banish'd moody discontented fury,
And from thy burgonet I'll rend thy bear
Those articles, my lord, are in the king's hand:
all!
SCENE II. A room of state in the same.
And whatsoever you will employ me in,
This discipline shows thou hast been in love.
I warrant you, mistress, thunder shall not so awake
That in a gondola were seen together
But, hark! what new alarum is this same?
Which here, in this most desolate isle, else falls
work? There; give it your hobby-horse: wheresoever
Is piled upon his faith and will continue
My master and his man are both broke loose,
Brought to this shore; and by my prescience
The love I bore your queen--lo, fool again!--
The Dauphin is too wilful-opposite,
But in your bride you bury brotherhood.
To whom?
Pardon, madam:
Is't possible?
Upon the bosom of the ground, rush forth,
Come pentecost as quickly as it will,
CAMILLO, FLORIZEL, and PERDITA come forward
Attended him on bridges, stood in lanes,
You are my mother, madam; would you were,--
ring may be stolen too: so your brace of unprizable
O, pardon! since a crooked figure may
And twenty times made pause to sob and weep,
Of golden metal that must round my brow
To expel him thence. I think he'll be to Rome
The very all of all is,--but, sweet heart, I do
From a full-flowing stomach. General,
Which all too much I have bestow'd on thee.
Mercutio, thou consort'st with Romeo,--
Against black pagans, Turks, and Saracens:
Touch'd you the bastardy of Edward's children?
See, they have shut him in.
me; I will show you such a necessity in his death
For I have often heard my mother say
dog's obeyed in office.
Which for Antenor we deliver you:
These tidings nip me, and I hang the head
And vows revenge as spacious as between
Fetch hither Richard, that in common view
out-paramoured the Turk: false of heart, light of
He knows me as the blind man knows the cuckoo,
You know your places: God be with you all!
With their superfluous riots, hear these tears!
Partly for that her promised proportions
A Judas!
For beasts that meet me run away for fear:
house the hour she appointed me.
guides him should aid him, I will search
I'll prove the prettier fellow of the two,
By Jupiter, an angel! or, if not,
Our house is hell, and thou, a merry devil,
A mad-cup ruffian and a swearing Jack,
As she is prized to have--as to refuse
And yet me thinks I see it in thy face,
here much Orlando!
I pray, awake, sir: if you love the maid,
wooing, wedding, and repenting, is as a Scotch jig,
and more than that, he can speak French; and
That the bless'd gods, as angry with my fancy,
But soft! but soft! aside: here comes the king.
And this distilled liquor drink thou off;
And how long is that, think you?
No longer session hold upon my shame,
Well, I'll break in: go borrow me a crow.
Was ever king so grieved for subjects' woe?
And not be tied unto his brother's will.
Why I descend into this bed of death,
Which way ran he that kill'd Mercutio?
Nestor!
She that would alter services with thee,
That you can let this go? Are you so gospell'd
prince in the night, you may stay him.
Let me dispute with thee of thy estate.
What, wilt thou on thy death-bed play the ruffian,
brought to pass under the profession of
That stir the king against the duke my brother.
To the under generation, you shall find
Pageants and sights of honour.
imputation of his wickedness by your rule, should be
Because we brave her: come.
Faith, nothing; but has left me here behind, to
You will return and sojourn with my sister,
Therefore accept such kindness as I can.
The desperate tempest hath so bang'd the Turks,
Both as the same, or rather ours the elder,
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Why, that's my bawcock. What, hast
Jove, I thank thee: I will smile; I will do
Give solely sovereign sway and masterdom.
She says she drinks no other drink but tears,
To end itself by death? 'Twas yet some comfort,
Part them; they are incensed.
Your highness aims at, if I aim aright.
shepherd. Put not yourself into amazement how these
That sees into the bottom of my grief?
There are no tricks in plain and simple faith;
To the field, to the field!
And do such bitter business as the day
Therefore, my lord, go travel for a while,
yards about; but I am now about no waste; I am about
I have a motion much imports your good;
great rich Capulet; and if you be not of the house
Know you the quality of Lord Timon's fury?
For revels, dances, masks and merry hours
Of him I was about to call his father--
Thanks, madam; well.
And passion, having my best judgment collied,
Come, my sweet wife, my dearest mother, and
Vie feathers white. Marina gets
Bid them have patience; she shall come anon.
Cannot deny; he hath done no Briton harm,
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
Put on by us, if, in your heavenly eyes,
The English power is near, led on by Malcolm,
Strikes him
SCENE III. A park near the palace.
must fit all demands.
Heaven guide thy pen to print thy sorrows plain,
Let's take leave of him.
Saw'st thou not, boy, how Silver made it good
Now, what my love is, proof hath made you know;
That were the slaves of drink and thralls of sleep?
From the rude sea's enraged and foamy mouth
For love of God, forbear him.
'Those runagates!'
Heavily, heavily.
Well, see to live; I will not touch thine eye
A knot you are of damned blood-suckers!
She would swear the gentleman should be her sister;
Till this time pomp was single, but now married
Re-enter EMILIA with IAGO
Well worth the seeing.
so money comes withal.
If that it be the work of any hand.
And spurn me back: but if it be not so,
Tear for tear, and loving kiss for kiss,
Against thy oath and true allegiance sworn,
I must be cruel, only to be kind:
Had he been ta'en, we should have heard the news;
Spare England, for it is your native coast;
In this resolve: I'll send a friar with speed
That my remembrance warrants. Had I not
This is her question.
Which wash both heaven and hell; and thou, that hast
Beside the haughty protector, have we Beaufort,
Collect them all together at my tent:
Now, good sir, what are you?
And sith so neighbour'd to his youth and havior,
Than I, that have not well the gift of tongue,
I tender so the safety of my liege.
Enter Blackamoors with music; MOTH; FERDINAND,  BIRON, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN, in Russian habits, and masked
Lo, I present your grace a traitor's head,
Wish chastely and love dearly, that your Dian
More than I love these eyes, more than my life,
Blue, my lord.
I mean, that married her, alack, good man!
It will be laid to us, whose providence
As if we had them not. Spirits are not finely touch'd
Thus have I shunn'd the fire for fear of burning,
Wherefore shall I be content-a?
Deserve as full as fortunate a bed
Indeed, a sheep doth very often stray,
The rarest of all women.
Enter CONSTANCE, ARTHUR, and SALISBURY
I will; and so will she, I know, my lord.
Exeunt
Why, what wouldst thou do there before I go?
'Then' is spoken; fare you well now: and yet, ere
far out of his knowledge!
Pray now, sit down.
When right with right wars who shall be most right!
Enter HAMLET, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
That fear to hate, and hate turns one or both
And by the leave of my good lord the king,
and though the devil lead the measure, such are to
Heard, not regarded; seen, but with such eyes
I will fetch off my bottle, though I be o'er ears
So dear the love my people bore me, nor set
her, being ever from their cradles bred together,
Will you ha' the truth on't? If this had not been
Who calls?
And in it is Lysimachus the governor,
SCENE VI. Camp before Florence.
If a man's brains were in's heels, were't not in
Why, be so still; here's nobody will steal that from
When I was dry with rage and extreme toil,
I have forsworn his bed and company.
That the rude sea grew civil at her song
And strokes death to her.
Exit REYNALDO
more the pity, his white hairs do witness it; but
Exit
'Tis but so, I warrant.
loves me. She did commend my yellow stockings of
On any plot of ground in Christendom.
Brentford?
Or slunk not Saturnine, as Tarquin erst,
Alas, he's mad!
Most valour, spoke not for them: the accusation
And once fought with him: he was a soldier good;
Keep then this passage to the Capitol
As I did sleep under this yew-tree here,
Nor no man else: all's cheerless, dark, and deadly.
Having his ear full of his airy fame,
Look, Hector, how the sun begins to set;
She is the weeping welkin, I the earth:
Scarce is dividant, touch them with several fortunes;
none but this.
I gave this unto Julia.
But how wilt thou do for a father?
I throw my hands, mine eyes, my heart to thee,
man; prove it.
I was too hot to do somebody good,
'That I receive the general food at first,
Return with welcome home from banishment.
Even out of your report. But, pray you, tell me,
am loved of all ladies, only you excepted: and I
Will you be ready? do you like this haste?
It from the bearer, 'tis a sufferance panging
A half-faced groat five hundred pound a year!
Thou comest in such a questionable shape
Enter the Messenger as before
Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes;
This do and do it kindly, gentle sirs:
Clambering to hang, an envious sliver broke;
In yours they will, in you all hopes are lost.
Master Brook, that ever governed frenzy. I will tell
Hear me a word;
Beshrew me, I would,
Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile.
Well, gentlemen,
the word l'envoy for a salve?
And nod their heads, and throw their eyes on thee!
Hath that poor monarch taught thee to insult?
That I might touch that cheek!
Presenting a letter
For her poor brother's pardon.
Hark ye; not so: in witness, take ye that.
No pains, sir: I take pleasure in singing, sir.
be a ravisher, so it cannot be denied but peace is a
Enter DENNY
have saved my life.'Zounds, I am afraid of this
And seeing thou dost, I here divorce myself
What, are Ancient Pistol and you friends yet?
O villain, that set this down among her vices! To
Bring me the satin coffer: lay the babe
Whilst I am bound to wonder, I am bound
I stand aloof; and will no reconcilement,
Exit EMILIA
Who loves the king and will embrace his pardon,
looked on.
Come, come, let us thither: this may prove food to
that loves quails; but he has not so much brain as
Romeo.
Than now to bid you hold.
uncoined constancy; for he perforce must do thee
Do so. Go tell thy master I am alone.
And will not let me welcome this good news.
took you for, I made no offence; therefore, I
O, no, my nephew must not know, Sir Richard,
More calf, certain.
It is not Agamemnon's sleeping hour:
Now am I dead,
Then you must undertake to slander him.
This get I by his death: ay me, unhappy!
Cuts beauty off from all posterity.
What if my house be troubled with a rat
Henry the Fourth by conquest got the crown.
Whose house, whose bed, whose meal, and exercise,
That kiss'd his hand away in courtesy;
Alack, thou dost usurp authority.
And keep their teeth clean.
Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
To trash for over-topping, new created
Come, guard the door without; let him not pass,
These are portents; but yet I hope, I hope,
wicked villain, despite of all grace.
A rhapsody of words: heaven's face doth glow:
He doth appear.
That thou mayst be a queen, and cheque the world!
What, are you both agreed?
Exit
I never in my life did look on him.
Marry, I saw your niece do more favours to the
Hath spoken well and justly: therefore, madam,
Upon mine hostess there: good sir, make haste.
Anger's my meat; I sup upon myself,
Runs posting on in Bolingbroke's proud joy,
When you and those poor number saved with you
For, by the way, I'll sort occasion,
No harm by it, though the gods hear, I hope
Some heavenly music, which even now I do,
sped to-day. You'll remember your brother's excuse?
The mouse ne'er shunn'd the cat as they did budge
And press'd in with this caution. First, methought
My liege, I am advised what I say,
about to expound this dream. Methought I was--there
is Thisby's cue: she is to enter now, and I am to
Make pale our cheek, chasing the royal blood
We, as the spring of all, shall pay for all.
Upon a gather'd lily almost wither'd.
Your hearts and minds to mutiny and rage,
Love sought is good, but given unsought better.
I thought of her,
nature the wrongs are thou hast done him, I know
you two would marry.
Against this proud protector, with my sword!
Here, good my glass, take this for telling true:
A single voice; and that not pass'd me but
Come away; it is almost clear dawn.
Would use his heaven for thunder;
Exeunt all but BRUTUS
And took his voice who should be prick'd to die,
What you commanded me, but by her woman
And the demesnes that there adjacent lie,
RICHARD
Tears the letter
By paved fountain or by rushy brook,
That he should hither come as this dire night,
The chopping French we do not understand.
Good meat, sir, is common; that every churl affords.
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg,
When shall we three meet again
O Proteus, let this habit make thee blush!
Of every realm, that did debate this business,
of bastard in the Half-Moon,' or so. But, Ned, to
This is a strange abuse. Let's see thy face.
York lies; he might have sent and had the horse;
Ambitiously for rule and empery,
Who, I?
Swearing that you withhold his levied host,
When well-apparell'd April on the heel
If for I want that glib and oily art,
And over the chair of state, where now he sits,
That cravens my weak hand. Come, here's my heart.
The citizens of Corioli have issued,
With what's unreal thou coactive art,
That's all the fault: I spoke with her but once
But if you fail, without more speech, my lord,
My prettiest Perdita!
To Epidamnum; till my factor's death
Till he hath lost his honey and his sting;
The adornment of her bed; the arras; figures,
By the suggestion of the queen's allies;
Lay hold upon him: if he do resist,
My father, king of Spain, was reckon'd one
extremities he endured; and in the reproof of this
He is a man, setting his fate aside,
And be no turncoats: yet may your pains, six months,
That thou shalt see the difference of our spirits,
Where shall we sojourn till our coronation?
In honour honesty, the tract of every thing
To compass wonders but by help of devils.
Here to unfold, though lately we intended
Exit, guarded
Abides in me; I say amen to all.
Nan Page my daughter and my little son
From whence thou camest, how tended on: but rest
Which oft the angry Mab with blisters plagues,
And yet my nature never in the fight
But let our plot go forward: let our wives
To eat with us to-night, the charge and thanking
He is your husband on a pre-contract:
general says, you that have so traitorously
Haply you shall not see me more; or if,
That, being captain of the watch to-night,
Saint Lawrence Poultney, did of me demand
A prosperous south-wind friendly, we have cross'd,
By all the blood that ever fury breathed,
And as with age his body uglier grows,
Let us not live in France; let us quit all
As full of labour as a wise man's art
Now do I see thee, ha! have at thee, Hector!
A wither'd branch, that's only green at top;
The king shall do it: must he be deposed?
And tell his wife that, being lunatic,
Is that the elder, and art thou the heir?
As 'twere triumphing at mine enemies,
Was this inserted to make interest good?
France et vous etes mienne. It is as easy for me,
Wherein my death might yield her any profit,
But, my good lord, I wot not by what power,--
Placed in contempt! Farewell, fair cruelty.
Chid I for that at frugal nature's frame?
No, by my troth, I did not mean such love.
A pillow for his head:
You strike my people; and your disorder'd rabble
At wakes and wassails, meetings, markets, fairs;
Long live Gonzalo!
That thou, Aumerle, didst send two of thy men
Be emptied to redeem a traitor home?
To be ashamed to be my father's child!
Should we be taking leave
The steeled gaoler is the friend of men.
and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without the
I must attend the duke at dinner: by two o'clock I
Then they could smile and fawn upon his debts
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
In all my miseries; but thou hast forced me,
Enter SIR HUMPHREY and WILLIAM STAFFORD, with drum and soldiers
That minister'st a potion unto me
But all in vain are these mean obsequies;
Singing
My virtue or my plague, be it either which--
Hooking both right and wrong to the appetite,
What would your Grace have me to do in this?
At sea! what mother?
Prithee, to bed; and in thy prayers remember
And monarchs to behold the swelling scene!
They fight, and certain Volsces come to the aid of  AUFIDIUS. MARCIUS fights till they be driven in breathless
Earth-treading stars that make dark heaven light:
To Lydia and to Ionia; Whilst--
in friendship, and I will one way or other make you amends.
Reads
'Tis brief, my lord.
He's the devil.
Good aunt, stand up.
Think it a bastard, whom the oracle
must produce for an interpreter.
There's many a gentle person made a Jack.
Nay, come, again.
Monmouth: it is called Wye at Monmouth; but it is
Whom I have ever honour'd as my king,
That once was mistress of the field and flourish'd,
The statue of her mother.
know you the reason?
Feel, then.
Well, that's set down.
Shall have judicious hearing. Stand, Aufidius,
Drawing her aside
fairer face.
foot, you shall see, as I have said, great
Would I not leap upright.
Who hath measured the ground?
Playing on pipes of corn and versing love
go hard with you.
Ere a fortnight make me elder,
No: know the gallant monarch is in arms
Fouler than heart can think thee, thou canst make
This evening coming.
SCENE IV:
So please your lordship, none.
That hugs his kicky-wicky here at home,
petition of monarchs. Here comes your father.
Nay, he will do it. 'Tis a goodly credit for you.
Is sum of something, which, to term in gross,
How now, Thersites! what lost in the labyrinth of
Your hand, my lord.
I would expend it with all willingness:
Trust me, I am glad on't.
Thou hast her, France: let her be thine; for we
Old, cold, withered and of intolerable entrails?
Coriolanus' exile. Now he's coming;
His act did not o'ertake his bad intent,
enough, if we know we are the kings subjects: if
'Twould not do.
Do ebb and flow with tears; the bark thy body is,
Were but the outside of the Roman Brutus,
Most mighty princess, that I have adventured
Upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh;
To beguile many and be beguiled by one:
Light vanity, insatiate cormorant,
Here in this city visiting the sick,
Enter HECTOR and ANDROMACHE
Unless he do submit himself to Rome.
Comes sneaking and so sucks her princely eggs,
Alas, poor Proteus! thou hast entertain'd
The spacious world cannot again afford
clodpole. But, sir, I will deliver his challenge by
Even in the aim and very flash of it.
wilt tutor me from quarrelling!
Warble, child; make passionate my sense of hearing.
From east to occident, cry out for service,
but in his clothes; and one that hath spoke most
Why, the night gone by.
humour of mine, sir, to take that that no man else
Enter an old Athenian
had been tabled by his side and I to peruse him by items.
Till that his rage and anger be forgot,
Pernicious protector, dangerous peer,
Nay, pursue him now, lest the device take air and taint.
The sky doth frown and lour upon our army.
In that it scorns to bear another hue;
Congreeing in a full and natural close,
relief, if it be but for that. if I can recover him
I will oppose his fate. Our force by land
For 'tis your thoughts that now must deck our kings,
The one is Murder, Rape is the other's name;
Then when ourselves we see in ladies' eyes,
Nor heel the high lavolt, nor sweeten talk,
Spurns down her late beloved, all his dependants
The fingers of the powers above do tune
And likewise will visit thee with mine.
'Have I no friend will rid me of this living fear?'
Why, you speak truth. I never yet saw man,
Which, like the meteors of a troubled heaven,
And violation of all faith and troth
The Sixth Knight, PERICLES, passes over
Urged by the commons? Doth his majesty
Resolve your angry father, if my tongue
Please your highness, note
As infinite as imminent! but I'll be true.
I'm worse than mad: I have kept back their foes,
'His garment!' Now the devil--
The man shall have his mare again, and all shall be well.
I were a baby still. I love you better.
Of this my privacy
Here lived I, but now live here no more.
What makes this change?
Now Margaret's curse is fall'n upon our heads,
What heart receives from hence the conquering part,
diet; to watch like one that fears robbing; to
Manly as Hector, but more dangerous;
How 'scaped I killing when I cross'd you so?
epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
I pray you, sir, is it your will
SCENE I. Rome. Before the Palace.
Albeit I make a hazard of my head.
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
DON
bannerets about thee did manifoldly dissuade me from
And to that end I shortly mind to leave you.
And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue
Fie on thee, jolt-head! thou canst not read.
And bring me how he takes my death.
ACT IV
he hath wronged his honour in marrying the renowned
And each several chamber bless,
SCENE III. A street.
Since you are like to see the king before me,
An a' may catch your hide and you alone:
Come, come, 'tis only I that must disgrace thee.
As Beatrice is, cannot be commendable:
No, good madam; I will not out of doors.
Art thou damn'd, Hubert.
That suffer in exposure, let us meet,
face into more lines than is in the new map with the
Nay, that follows not.
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Despite of mine own nature. Quickly send,
In my bedchamber.
Eleven hours I spent to write it over,
Exit PAROLLES
being a very beastly creature, lays claim to me.
I know not how I have deserved to run into my lord's
I'll kill my horse, because I will not fly.
Or to drown my clothes, and say I was stripped.
Pour all your tears! I am your sorrow's nurse,
I cannot choose: sometime he angers me
Seems much unequal: he's married to Octavia.
With bated breath and whispering humbleness, Say this;
Come, my captain knows you not.
Hath turn'd my feigned prayer on my head
What is thy name?
Most certain. Sister, welcome: pray you,
friends, if we should ne'er have need of 'em? they
And will not use a woman lawlessly.
Applauding our approach.
Each in his office ready at thy beck.
Yet doth this accident and flood of fortune
Who's there?
Something; and scarce so much: nothing, indeed.
Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues
Exit
he? marry, I'll see thee hanged first.
Fair sir, God save you! Where's the princess?
From thee to die were torture more than death:
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO and MOTH
Alas, poor Clarence! is it for a wife
to dinner, sir, why, let it be as humours and
Cries out, I was possess'd. Then all together
scourged by the sequent effects: love cools,
Than in my thought it lies.
Look how thou stirrest now! come away, or I'll
Before me, she's a good wench.
On this removed issue, plague for her
Rebellious hinds, the filth and scum of Kent,
Will soon be levied. Herald, save thou thy labour;
SCENE III. Field of battle betwixt Sandal Castle and Wakefield.
O, let me teach you how to knit again
That does affect it. Once more, fare you well.
world but I, and I am sunburnt; I may sit in a
To be mine own attorney in this case.
To LADY ANNE
In life so lifeless as it shows itself.
Take honour from me, and my life is done:
Go after her: she's desperate; govern her.
Pertains to the state; and front but in that file
I pray you now, good master Slender's serving-man,
confess, and be hanged for his labour;--first, to be
Ay, ay, he said four.
Yea, or else it were pity but they should suffer
Shall, stiff and stark and cold, appear like death:
Far truer spoke than meant: I lose, indeed;
To her unguarded nest the weasel Scot
My truth-betrothed love and now my wife?
Was carried with more speed before the wind;
Sirrah, go hire me twenty cunning cooks.
His absence, sir,
Enter LUCENTIO, HORTENSIO, and BIANCA
And did they bid you tell her of it, madam?
It is apart
Lest with my sighs or tears I blast or drown
dinner of friends.
SCENE II. A room in the Garter Inn.
And ask remission for my folly past.
To counterfeit thus grossly with your slave,
Look, York: I stain'd this napkin with the blood
fellow somewhat near the door, he should be a
We'll but commend what we intend to sell.
Do comfort and not burn. 'Tis not in thee
In seven short years, that here my only son
Pardon and terms of love to all of you?
Enter DESDEMONA, EMILIA, and Clown
For the most worthiest fit! Give me your pardon.
Why, no; the day had broke
Spies of the Volsces
Your mother came to Sicily and did find
To pluck bright honour from the pale-faced moon,
O, sir, you are old.
Come, bring them away: if these be good people in
Or I will fetch thy rim out at thy throat
O heavy lightness! serious vanity!
Why, didst thou not come from heaven?
Than to live still and write mine epitaph.
Ay, fashion you may call it; go to, go to.
Do you hear how he misplaces?
Are all thrown down, and that which here stands up
not see Pompey is uncasing for the combat? What mean
The island's side.
And meteors fright the fixed stars of heaven;
So far from sounding and discovery,
fellow there, whose villanous saffron would have
Of every virtue gives renown to men!
Let in that amity which you have made;
Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM and GLOUCESTER
The good in conversation,
That at the parting all the church did echo:
I do remember an apothecary,--
I am the best of them that speak this speech,
Wretched shall France be only in my name.
Here, sir!
No doubt, shall then and till then govern well.
If any thing more than your sport and pleasure
Is wretchedness deprived that benefit,
Hail to your lordship!
rouse the night-owl in a catch that will draw three
So do not you, for you are a light wench.
That lived, that loved, that liked, that look'd
Much more for what I cannot do for you
With every thing that pretty is,
Like doth quit like, and MEASURE still FOR MEASURE.
Report is changeable. 'Tis time to look about; the
Exeunt some of the Servants
Would quite confound distinction, yet stand off
Nurse! Wife! What, ho! What, nurse, I say!
He will, an if he live to be a man.
Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers; revenges, hers;
I took it for a man; often 'twould say
worn out thy pump, that when the single sole of it
Who, I rob? I a thief? not I, by my faith.
Our nation's terror and their bloody scourge!
I will not have it so: lie down, good sirs;
No sooner justice had with valour arm'd
punishment, by thy sweet grace's officer, Anthony
Then put my tires and mantles on him, whilst
And show itself, attire me how I can.
Who will not change a raven for a dove?
Anon do meet the senate.
A needy, hollow-eyed, sharp-looking wretch,
Your ignorant election; enforce his pride,
Shall wait upon your father's funeral.
And let them know, both what we mean to do,
O, I have read it: it is heresy. Have you no more to say?
have her, Master Brook; Master Brook, you shall
not fail him at supper; for indeed he hath made
Enter VENTIDIUS as it were in triumph, with SILIUS,  and other Romans, Officers, and Soldiers; the dead body of PACORUS borne before him
And once again, a pot o' the smallest ale.
Here enter'd Pucelle and her practisants;
Enter a Messenger
Acknowledge mine.
buttock, or any buttock.
Why, thou whoreson ass, thou mistakest me.
Exeunt
Dies
You greet with present grace and great prediction
Save that, for reverence to some alive,
Thrift, thrift, Horatio! the funeral baked meats
mood, and smell somewhat strong of her strong
By my fidelity, this is not well, Master Ford; this
Please you, therefore, draw nigh, and take your places.
Exit
I would bend under any heavy weight
What, is't too short? I'll lengthen it with mine:
Barkloughly castle call they this at hand?
What is it ye would see?
It's true, good lieutenant.
King Henry's faithful and anointed queen:
This viperous traitor: to eject him hence
As yet, to question you about your fortunes.
Who hath upon him still that natural stamp:
You must not marvel, Helen, at my course,
and wouldst adventure
RICHARD
highways out of all sanctified limit, as a desperate
All's one for that.
if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously
If it be well to live; but better 'twere
When you cast out, it still came home.
Could say 'This is my wife' there; all were woven
Why, 'tis this naming of him does him harm.
God shall forgive you Coeur-de-lion's death
Myself have calm'd their spleenful mutiny,
'Tis pity of him.
To prison with her: and away with him.
down the prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.
undermine it, the walls will stand till they fall of
When the sun sets, the air doth drizzle dew;
Rather than life preserved with infamy.
Requite your love!
Of her o'er-eaten faith, are bound to Diomed.
But welcome, as you are. What shall we do?
Grandam, we can; for my good uncle Gloucester
Re-enter the PRINCESS, ushered by BOYET, ROSALINE, MARIA, and KATHARINE
that: heaven knows what she has known.
What shall de honest man do in my closet? dere is
Like softest music to attending ears!
If it please the gods to defend you by men, then men
Are but black to Rosalind.
To come ashore. Therefore, you men of Harfleur,
O, 'tis true:
The noble knot he made.
A halter pardon him! and hell gnaw his bones!
The paper as the body of my friend,
But yet my nature could not bear it so.
And from thy hated presence part I so:
A fire from heaven came and shrivell'd up
My leisure serves me, pensive daughter, now.
And that the Earl of Surrey, with the rod.
So I were not his sister. Can't no other,
gallant, illustrate, and learned gentleman, before
Whose sale is present death in Mantua,
Wife to thy Edward, to thy slaughter'd son,
That heaven had made her such a man: she thank'd me,
Thou and thy faction shall repent this rape.
A drop of patience: but, alas, to make me
Desires you let the dukedoms that you claim
Why dost not comfort me, and help me out
Sir Topas the curate, who comes to visit Malvolio
redeem you from your gyves; if not, you shall have
This apish and unmannerly approach,
Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN, behind
Of heaven, not me, make an experiment.
Be but to sleep and feed? a beast, no more.
Our uncle York lord governor of England;
I do beseech your grace,--
With tapesty of silk and silver; the story
So be it; either to the uttermost,
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech,
Were our tears wanting to this funeral,
A whole armado of convicted sail
And bade me to dismiss you.
The abuse of greatness is, when it disjoins
Untimely storms make men expect a dearth.
A bloody tyrant and a homicide;
noble lords; you have restrained yourself within the
But you will take exceptions to my boon.
Take off his miseries.
This day my sister should the cloister enter
King Pepin's title and Hugh Capet's claim,
Winchester.
Assuming man's infirmities,
May, if they think it well, let fall a tear;
unlooked for, and there's an end.
Do me the favour to dilate at full
Their ragged curtains poorly are let loose,
Out of his subject: and we here dispatch
I have a pain upon my forehead here.
Tell him, it is for justice and for aid,
And we in them no hope to win the day;
For I am sure you can wish none from me:
which may, without contradiction, suffer the report.
wild-fowl than your lion living; and we ought to
Is a sharp wit matched with too blunt a will;
black, this plaintiff here, the offender, did call
With one that wants her wits?
Not that I know.
And made you to suspect me with the Moor.
Rate me at what thou wilt, thou shalt be paid.
done, for thou hast more of the wild-goose in one of
having colour enough, and the other higher, is too
Look not pale, Bianca; thy father will not frown.
They do consume the thing that feeds their fury:
I got a promise of this fair one here
is, she shall be ploughed.
Defiance, traitors, hurl we in your teeth:
Plantagenet! I come, Plantagenet!
Exeunt Goths, with AARON. Flourish within
Come, come.
A rendezvous, a home to fly unto.
Lady, give me your hand, and, as we walk,
common; and in Cheapside shall my palfrey go to
And give him chastisement for this abuse.
What is a remuneration?
SCENE II. The same.
And sing them loud even in the dead of night;
Sees and knows more, much more, than he unfolds.
once more search with me.
Sirrah, go you to Barthol'mew my page,
Between who?
Spring with my tears! be aidant and remediate
Nor I from Troy come not to whisper him:
Look not upon me, for thine eyes are wounding:
That are given for 'em. Friendship's full of dregs:
No more!
SCENE VII. A camp, at a small distance from Rome.
There to remain.
show in the posterior of this day, to be rendered by
The consequence o' the crown, and must not soil
Do you not read some tokens of my son
A post from Wales loaden with heavy news;
Now I begin to relish thy advice;
O'er courtiers' knees, that dream on court'sies straight,
Play, music! And you, brides and bridegrooms all,
Came of a gentle kind and noble stock,
And leave you naked.
I'll give no wound to thee. Therefore, good heavens,
Then do we sin against our own estate,
To think of what a noble strain you are,
grave-maker: 'the houses that he makes last till
Out of the weak door of our fainting land.
And tells me 'tis a thing impossible
entertainment than yours. You are welcome: but my
Harry, withdraw thyself; thou bleed'st too much.
Come, boy; I am past moe children, but thy sons and
Excuse; it is to beat usurping down.
Advance your standards, and upon them, lords;
That every nice offence should bear his comment.
How may we try it further?
Exeunt PAULINA and Ladies, with HERMIONE
Where's his examination?
The king hath of you.
A dead march. Exeunt, bearing off the dead bodies; after which a peal of ordnance is shot off
His bloody brow! O Jupiter, no blood!
For he can do no more than Caesar's arm
When such a spacious mirror's set before him,
You do not give the cheer: the feast is sold
Master, a mercatante, or a pedant,
That God fought for us.
When shrill-tongued Fulvia scolds. The messengers!
peacock's feather. You'll never trust his word
This beauteous lady Thisby is certain.
Nay, that's certain: but yet the pity of it, Iago!
Between you 'greed concerning her observance?
watch; therefore bear you the lantern. This is your
Thou hast been rightly honest;--so hast thou;--
A charge sounded
For fear, I promise you, if I look pale.
Chaplain, away! thy priesthood saves thy life.
Quick, quick, I pray thee; draw the curtain straight:
York and young Rutland could not satisfy.
Exeunt
By inches waste you: in which time she purposed,
SCENE I. A plain in Syria.
O, stay! I have no power to let her pass;
They swore that you were well-nigh dead for me.
Melting with tenderness and kind compassion
Exit
Of benefit proceeding from our king
Thou art a proud traitor, priest.
Hast thou of me as she is for a wife.
which cannot choose but branch now. Since their
Come, thou gentle day!
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Marry, when thou darest.
't as valourously as I may, that sall I suerly do,
His friends still wrought reprieves for him: and,
Give us particulars of thy preservation;
Lucilius' Servant	                  Welcome, good brother.
Then I will come to my mother by and by. They fool
And you.
That he's your fixed enemy, and revoke
do; and they with continual action are even as good as rotten.
No further, sir.
No, neither.
Though time seem so adverse and means unfit.
Suffolk concluded on the articles,
Now, Richard, I am with thee here alone:
I would surrender it.
Why dost thou use me thus? I know thee not.
As stooping to relieve him: I not doubt
prepared. I am made to understand that you have
Good fool, help me to some light and some paper: I
Through flinty Tartar's bosom would peep forth,
Such a dependency of thing on thing,
That vulture in you, to devour so many
Post you to London, and you will find it so;
Who, finger'd to make man his lawful music,
I warrant they have made peace with Bolingbroke.
Are we undone? cast off? nothing remaining?
I do believe the swearer. What with me?
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
No, in good sooth: the fire is dead with grief,
Which, cunningly effected, will beget
I wonder that you will still be talking, Signior
To the utmost of a man, and giddy censure
Enter MACBETH, SEYTON, and Soldiers, with drum and colours
The place of death and sorry execution,
She will not stay the siege of loving terms,
Enter LEONATO and ANTONIO
Her blood is settled, and her joints are stiff;
Worthy sir, thou bleed'st;
To let this canker of our nature come
It is most true; true, I have married her:
Was Cressid here?
Where? at the senate-house?
To keep them back that come to succor you:
Brutus, I do observe you now of late:
Hold therefore, Angelo:--
A goodly medicine for my aching bones! O world!
After your late tossing on the breaking seas?
And in defence of my lord's worthiness,
And yielding to another when it blows,
Cut me to pieces, Volsces; men and lads,
The tread of a man's foot: to the wars!
And we'll not fail. When Duncan is asleep--
Both of one horse?
May I be bold to say so, sir?
Speak frankly as the wind;
How now! is he dead?
that blind rascally boy that abuses every one's eyes
le Grand; which holy undertaking with most austere
Ay, and brought off the field: your cause of sorrow
But this same Cassio, though he speak of comfort
Action is eloquence, and the eyes of the ignorant
Wears yet thy silver livery. She at Tarsus
He did, my gracious lord, begin that place;
Will money buy 'em?
I will peat his pate four days. Bite, I pray you; it
means your grace?
Knocking within
with honesty?
Go you down that way towards the Capitol;
Thus is poor Suffolk ten times banished;
How long is this ago?
Enter FALSTAFF disguised as Herne
Cousin of Buckingham, though Humphrey's pride
Come hither, sir.
Suspecting that we both were in a house
One that, in all obedience, makes the church
That feed'st me with the very name of meat:
I am resolved; 'tis but a three years' fast:
Scorns to unsay what once it hath deliver'd.
It was his bidding: therefore, good Emilia,.
is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead body.
But I shall live, my lord, to give them thanks
Ay, on the front.
But this most cruel usage of your queen,
Here's a good world! Knew you of this fair work?
But his neat cookery! he cut our roots
As great Sicilius' heir.
The wood of Birnam.
And think my patience, more than thy desert,
Too low a mistress for so high a servant.
I shall grow jealous of you shortly, Launcelot, if
Exeunt
Is a mad tale he told to-day at dinner,
The mailed Mars shall on his altar sit
I am thinking, brother, of a prediction I read
Ay, ay; and she hath offer'd to the doom--
As your good flock shall prosper.
Ah, boy, Cornelia never with more care
With a wench.
For Christian shame, put by this barbarous brawl:
How seventh cause? Good my lord, like this fellow.
And I'll not wish thee to her.
Augustus lives to think on't: and so much
Then know, that from my soul I love thy daughter.
Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together,
Which easily endures not article
Upon his neck a mole, a sanguine star;
Something mistaken in't.
Who, Troilus? Troilus is the better man of the two.
'Murder!'
Intended for great Theseus' nuptial-day.
him: discuss the same in French unto him.
Exeunt BERTRAM and Lords
What's past and what's to come she can descry.
Did sometimes march? by heaven I charge thee, speak!
A sort of vagabonds, rascals, and runaways,
Come, if the emperor's court can feast two brides,
Enter CORIOLANUS
office to say is come, was faithfully confirmed by
Great Caesar,--
Shakes like a thing unfirm? O Cicero,
Fairly spoke.
He wants the natural touch: for the poor wren,
Stay thy revengeful hand; thou hast no cause to fear.
Are clamorous groans, which strike upon my heart,
past watching.
Decline all this, and see what now thou art:
So may he ever do! and ever flourish,
From whom we thought it meet to hide our love
But there, where I have garner'd up my heart,
You are welcome, sir.
Will well become such sweet-complaining grievance.
A huge half-moon, a monstrous cantle out.
What hempen home-spuns have we swaggering here,
Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, JAQUES, ORLANDO, OLIVER, and CELIA
And take upon command what help we have
SCENE II. Another street.
Enter FRANCIS
Come, Kate, I'll have your song too.
With more of thine: this love that thou hast shown
though there were no further danger known but the
Thou runn'st before me, shifting every place,
It's heaven's will:
Either to die the death or to abjure
Rome will despise her for this foul escape.
nor the courtier's, which is proud, nor the
broiled and eaten him too.
I took by the throat the circumcised dog,
It is impossible that I should die
Do what ye will, my lords: and, pray, forgive me,
best array: bid your friends; for if you will be
What company, at what expense; and finding
You gentle gods, give me but this I have,
Enter Judges, Senators and Tribunes, with MARTIUS  and QUINTUS, bound, passing on to the place of execution; TITUS going before, pleading
But Antony's hath triumph'd on itself.
Exit
Upon the instant that she was accused,
Remember, lords, your oaths to Henry sworn,
From the four corners of the earth they come,
May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world!
O villainous! I have looked upon the world for four
Which break themselves in swearing!
Exit
nothing, to do nothing, to know nothing, and to have
That is he: I'll tell you there is good men porn at Monmouth.
If you choose that, then I am yours withal.
O, that's a brave man! he writes brave verses,
Retiring with HORATIO
Hark!
I cannot give thee less, to be call'd grateful:
Lavinia, wert thou thus surprised, sweet girl,
Some carry-tale, some please-man, some slight zany,
Those of his chamber, as it seem'd, had done 't:
He that perforce robs lions of their hearts
This doom, my lord, if I may judge:
eternal. You shall hear I am run away: know it
Forget your oath to us at Doncaster;
Of grave and austere quality, tender down
For I have ever verified my friends,
Sir John, I prithee, leave the prince and me alone:
Or, seeing it, of such childish friendliness
And why should Caesar be a tyrant then?
Stay yet, Lord Salisbury; I'll go with thee,
Over hill, over dale,
I thank you, sir: that's all.
Our treasures seized, our soldiers put to flight,
Enter DUKE and THURIO
That nature works, and of her cures; which doth give me
The queen is dead.
Then let us both be sudden.
Enjoys it; but in gross brain little wots
Till the disaster that, one mortal night,
They sit
Exeunt
Ay, Lepidus.
he feels no pain, the one lacking the burden of lean
Your hopes and friends are infinite.
In thy not chiding, for she was as tender
The patron of my life and liberty.
Exeunt
And make a riot on the gentle brow
O young and noble Cato, art thou down?
Should have him thus restrain'd.
serve God, if the devil bid you. Because we come to
Whose icy current and compulsive course
But not so citizen a wanton as
Hath she forgot already that brave prince,
Exit BIONDELLO
Lurk, lurk.
Help, Lucius, help!
Nathaniel's coat, sir, was not fully made,
But I did find him still mine enemy:
Which makes it tedious; for in all the play
Well, Brutus, thou art noble; yet, I see,
O, 'tis true.
I cannot too much muse
My master through his art foresees the danger
All his successors gone before him hath done't; and
Should chase us with my father, power no jot
Ay, with five hundred, father, for a need:
This label on my bosom; whose containing
Confusion now hath made his masterpiece!
My fingers itch. Wife, we scarce thought us blest
Counterfeit, I assure you.
'Romeo is banished,' to speak that word,
I rather wish you foes than hollow friends:
He neither does nor shall.
That thou hast practised on her with foul charms,
Do not extort thy reasons from this clause,
Sir, my circumstances,
To woo your lady:
Could trammel up the consequence, and catch
No, Antony;
[To KING RICHARD III]
And quickly will return an injury:
With senators on the bench: this is it
I never knew him otherwise.
And at that time I made her weep agood,
Question her proudly; let thy looks be stern:
Look, who comes here: will you be chid?
Know'st thou not, Bertram,
The plain-song is most just: for humours do abound:
Mark Antony is every hour in Rome
My conscience hath a thousand several tongues,
latter end and she must be blind too.
and set London bridge on fire; and, if you can, burn
Jove sometimes went disguised, and why not I?
France, Kate: but, in loving me, you should love
Look into these affairs see this main end,
I will corrupt the Grecian sentinels,
Would without lapsing suffer: nay, sometimes,
Therefore, Timon,--
So two, together weeping, make one woe.
Bear Hamlet, like a soldier, to the stage;
An ancient angel coming down the hill,
to dinner;' there's a double meaning in that 'I took
Like a full soldier. Let's to the seaside, ho!
See where they come: we will behold his death.
I do forget.
shall use his foil and target; the lover shall not
Not all the whips of heaven are large enough:
Be left her to perform. Come, follow us;
On silly women or poor passengers.
The justice of your bearts will thereto add
O graceless men! they know not what they do.
And whipp'd the offending Adam out of him,
The news is, sir, the Volsces are in arms.
He shall kill two of us, and men indeed:
Sennet. Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, and EXETER
You are not wood, you are not stones, but men;
Confess yourselves wondrous malicious,
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
Oui; mette le au mon pocket: depeche, quickly. Vere
Full often, like a shag-hair'd crafty kern,
Been struck so to the soul that presently
So hated, and so banish'd: but he has a merit,
Hath stol'n it from her?
And I did give't my husband.
Now thy proud neck bears half my burthen'd yoke;
Alas, has banish'd me his bed already,
'Tis since the earthquake now eleven years;
And that I'll spend for him.
Shall I be tempted to infringe my vow
heinously unprovided. Well, God be thanked for
Enter TITUS, bearing arrows with letters at the  ends of them; with him, MARCUS, Young LUCIUS,  PUBLIUS, SEMPRONIUS, CAIUS, and other Gentlemen, with bows
women's modesty; and gave such orderly and
In your condemned seconds.
And what confederacy have you with the traitors
Alas, sir, how fell you besides your five wits?
Sir, much like
Of Blithild, which was daughter to King Clothair,
Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier:
turn; therefore say what a paragon she is, and thou
Carry this mad knave to the gaol. Father Baptista,
most coldest that ever turned up ace.
What were it but to make my sorrow greater?
That, though the truth of it stands off as gross
He had, my lord; and that it was which caused
Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself,
Call me to your remembrances.
My innocent life against an emperor.
his fortune and prevents the slander of his wife.
For 'get you gone,' she doth not mean 'away!'
Is she not hard-favoured, sir?
I am no orator, as Brutus is;
As I remember, Henry the Sixth
Is with a kind of colic pinch'd and vex'd
First go with me to church and call me wife,
That Paris is returned home and hurt.
My arm shall give thee help to bear thee hence;
I will overglance the superscript: 'To the
Speak of me as I am; nothing extenuate,
in the meat, and we will come in to dinner.
And pluck the wings from Painted butterflies
The sessions shall proceed: this is mere falsehood.
My friends were poor, but honest; so's my love:
Young scamels from the rock. Wilt thou go with me?
You know that you are Brutus that speak this,
Angering itself and others.--Bless thee, master!
The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;
His days are foul and his drink dangerous.
woman leads an ill life with him: he's a very
DON
Why, then the world's mine oyster.
Why, then are you no maiden. Leonato,
Out of our virtues; who miscarrying,
Go to; thou hast it ad dunghill, at the fingers'
It is my arm.
Give him the ring, and bring him, if thou canst,
Meanwhile must be an earnest motion
I pull in resolution, and begin
Bid them prepare within:
That warmer days would come: in these sear'd hopes,
No.
And, madam, if my uncle Marcus go,
Edge, sting, or operation, I am safe:
Far off, methinks, I hear the beaten drum:
[Waking]  Sleep, thou hast been a grandsire, and begot
as Claudio's, to cross this in the smallest.
Signior Iachimo will not from it.
And the issue there create
If this salute my blood a jot: it faints me,
Would he had!
That love my friend; and that they know full well
Upon so soft a subject as myself!
We dare not move the question of our place,
you may be won by some other sort than your father's
But when your carters or your waiting-vassals
You health. So please you, sir.
Our fair appointments may be well perused.
In cradle-clothes our children where they lay,
With lustier maintenance than I did look for
On all that need: let me report to him
cuckoo. Ver, begin.
And being seated, and domestic broils
To make William Lord Hastings of our mind,
With best advantage will deceive the time,
I thank you. Here comes the count.
[Aside]  Cold news for me; for I had hope of France
Exit
I perceive, by this demand, you are not altogether
All feasts, societies, and throngs of men!
But how to make ye suddenly an answer,
Shall show the better. Do not consent
This happy child, did I get any thing:
I have almost slipp'd the hour.
You, as your business and desire shall point you;
basket: I quaked for fear, lest the lunatic knave
An't please you, sir, to undertake the business for
Shall one day make the Duke of York a king.
So that my lord your son were not my brother,--
Then thou liest: look in thy last work, where thou
Sweet father, if I shall be thought thy son,
O, 'tis the cunning livery of hell,
Sweet lord, and why?
I took him for the plainest harmless creature
Fly, father, fly! for all your friends are fled,
The gods look down, and this unnatural scene
The ape is dead, and I must conjure him.
My maid Nerissa and myself meantime
To offer service to your enemy,
Ten thousand swelling toads, as many urchins,
How but well, sir? how but well?
To ISABELLA
Of my Lord Hastings' late imprisonment.
She loved not the savour of tar nor of pitch,
My very noble and approved good masters,
More than mistress of
man, I'll do you your master what good I can: and
hath in quarrelling, 'tis thought among the prudent
Wisdom and constancy, hath amazed me more
May Iden live to merit such a bounty.
Come, the full stop.
And call'd unto a cardinal's degree?
Broach'd with the steely point of Clifford's lance;
gentlemanlike dogs under the duke's table: he had
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave?
I tell thee, Licio, this is wonderful.
Can I do this, and cannot get a crown?
Even those you were wont to take delight in, the
Smother'd in errors, feeble, shallow, weak,
Filth, thou liest!
thou ask me why, sufficeth, my reasons are both good
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king.
Heaven let me bear it! you granting of my suit,
Let me be counted serviceable. How look I,
Then, as I said, the duke, great Bolingbroke,
What, John! Robert! John!
You bid me make it orderly and well,
substitute, and to save your brother?
Caesar, 'tis his schoolmaster:
Parted with sugar breath: so sweet a bar
Pray heaven it be not full of knight again.
And this is false you burden me withal.
Topple down headlong.
Who cannot err, he did it. Now this follows,--
lend me thy sword.
Wear out thy youth with shapeless idleness.
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
I should not live long after I saw Richmond.
Under the canopy.
Into a pit of ink, that the wide sea
That things might change or cease; tears his white hair,
To whom I give my benison,
Exeunt all but PISANIO
Enter POLONIUS and REYNALDO
Which, of he or Adrian, for a good
One day too late, I fear me, noble lord,
And almost shoulder'd in the swallowing gulf
I warrant, good creature, wheresoe'er she is,
Did the sea toss upon our shore this chest:
huge man, I should fear to drink at meals;
Thither he darts it. Bosom up my counsel,
Why, lo you now, I have spoke to the purpose twice:
Come, sister,--cousin, I would say--pray, pardon me.
This is a slight unmeritable man,
Silence that dreadful bell: it frights the isle
It is, my lord.
Forbear it therefore; give your cause to heaven.
Who wanting guilders to redeem their lives
I beseech you a word: what is she in the white?
Not the king's crown, nor the deputed sword,
Exeunt Citizens with the body
of me, there can be no kernel in this light nut; the
Enter SEYTON
were enriched with any other injuries but these, I
Yea, like fair fruit in an unwholesome dish,
Exit
So doth the greater glory dim the less:
How I persuaded, how I pray'd, and kneel'd,
'Stuprum. Chiron. Demetrius.'
The appetites they feed: but she makes hungry
Sit with my cousin; lend him your kind pains
hour is fixed; the match is made. Would any man
them, some upon the debts they owe, some upon their
Seduced the pitch and height of all his thoughts
I have, my lord: and their intent is this:
He is afraid of me and I of him:
Upon thy tongue as in my thought: now, good now,
She gives the cursed bawd. Here we her place;
A hit, a very palpable hit.
Master Brook, I will be thrown into Etna, as I have
ear that he is in her heart.
Give me your hand: this hand is moist, my lady.
That I was not ignoble of descent;
Come on, bawd; I will instruct thee in my trade; follow.
And nothing can we call our own but death
Taint the condition of this present hour,
Nay, then, I'll set those to you that can speak.
Your sharpest deeds of malice on this town:
I did but crave.
Awaked an evil nature; and my trust,
Enough, with over-measure.
has got that same scurvy doting foolish young knave's
Who saw Cesario, ho?
Beat a Venetian and traduced the state,
I follow him to serve my turn upon him:
And then run mad indeed, stark mad! for all
He has; and we shall see him
Studied so long, sat in the council-house
This precious book of love, this unbound lover,
Wanton as youthful goats, wild as young bulls.
Exeunt
Re-enter Guardsman, with Clown bringing in a basket
It shall suffice me: at which interview
Hamlet return'd shall know you are come home:
combat that 'twixt joy and sorrow was fought in
That were the servants to this chosen infant,
And pluck it o'er your brows, muffle your face,
And with the southern clouds contend in tears,
I saw him not these many years, and yet
have you wearied your parishioners withal, and never
His gracious pleasure any way therein:
That done, I will be walking on the works;
Now must your conscience my acquaintance seal,
Able to bear against the great Aufidius
Must render up myself.
him: if the devil have him not in fee-simple, with
Yes, madam: yet I cannot choose but laugh,
Thou wouldst as soon go kindle fire with snow
And won her soul; and she, sweet lady, dotes,
Lift up thy brow, renowned Salisbury,
Sirrah Costard, I will enfranchise thee.
To speak your deeds, not little of his care
talking of her.
desert. Cheerly, good Adam!
not what's spent in the search: why, thou loss upon
Withal I did infer your lineaments,
souviendrai. Les doigts? je pense qu'ils sont
What answer makes your grace unto my suit?
About her lank and all o'er-teemed loins,
Thou thy worldly task hast done,
Make an extent upon his house and lands:
Though I am bound to every act of duty,
As if a double hunt were heard at once,
That we must leave thee to thy sinking, for
Purple the sails, and so perfumed that
Attends the boisterous ruin. Never alone
The associates tend, and every thing is bent
So far from cheer and from your former state,
So I do, madonna; but to read his right wits is to
You were as good to shoot against the wind.
And my estate deserves an heir more raised
When I perceive your grace, like power divine,
Dromio; swore I was assured to her; told me what
Sweet Portia, welcome.
A man that ne'er saw in his life before.
And even in kind love I do conjure thee,
father perforce, I will render thee again in
Fool!
My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours:
They smile at me that shortly shall be dead.
The willing'st sin I ever yet committed
I must go victual Orleans forthwith.
And I in all unwillingness will go.
My love and fear glued many friends to thee;
I trust I may not trust thee; for thy word
Which gently laid my knighthood on my shoulder,
Come, Cassius' sword, and find Titinius' heart.
Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know
This, or else nothing, will inherit her.
Kill thy physician, and the fee bestow
The third he caper'd, and cried, 'All goes well;'
becomes the ground.
Dry up thy marrows, vines, and plough-torn leas;
To give me audience: if the midnight bell
If I refuse to wed Demetrius.
All this! ay, more: fret till your proud heart break;
You do impeach your modesty too much,
With all the abhorred births below crisp heaven
Should rift to hear me; and the words that follow'd
Were but a feigned friend to our proceedings:
To keep mine honour from corruption,
bilbo, in the circumference of a peck, hilt to
a measure, and a cinque pace: the first suit is hot
I have received letters from great Rome,
I cannot mend it, I must needs confess,
Well, every one can master a grief but he that has
Nor sound his quillets shrilly: hoar the flamen,
And wound her honour with this diffidence.
'Twas of his nephew Proteus, your son.
Did in great Ilion thus translate him to me.
Yet, if this servile usage once offend.
Than this; which to reiterate were sin
I love the king your father, and yourself,
Without my stir.
Sir, you and I have loved, but there's not it;
That I may slumber in eternal sleep!
DON
faces? Is there not milking-time, when you are
The word is short, but not so short as sweet;
To speak my mind of him: and indeed this day,
I hear their drums: let's set our men in order,
Ay, sir, but I am sure I do not; and whatsoever a
How to forget that learning, but, sir, now
But I do prize it at my love before
And I, here, at the bulwark of the bridge.
Harpier cries 'Tis time, 'tis time.
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
A meaner woman was delivered
Let it be so; and let Andronicus
They are at hand and ready to effect it.
Bardolph, follow him. A tapster is a good trade:
I wake before the time that Romeo
To one consent, may work contrariously:
The fashion, less without and more within.
Six thousand and two hundred good esquires;
God grant we never may have need of you!
Which even now stand in act, that, for their souls,
Then tell me, if I get your daughter's love,
Answer to us.
And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs
kill him; by this sword, I will.
If our betters play at that game, we must not dare
I will take order for her keeping close.
You train me to offend you; get you in:
Have I disbursed to the garrisons,
Is to avoid the aim. Therefore, to horse;
If you will make't an action, call witness to't.
'Tis as easy as lying: govern these ventages with
And stay'd the odds by adding four.
Which, to say sooth, are blessings; and which gifts,
Of the sea-water green, sir.
Have follow'd both my fortunes faithfully:
wept for the death of a third husband. But it is
Question enrages him. At once, good night:
May do a noble deed! he brings me liberty.
The by-gone day proclaim'd: say this to him,
with a warrener.
And wholesome berries thrive and ripen best
Exit EDMUND
your straight strossers.
O, that your young nobility could judge
ACT V
I will come to your worship to-morrow morning.
A retreat sounded
Rapine and Murder, you are welcome too.
distinguish of colours, but suddenly to nominate them
Of Sycorax, toads, beetles, bats, light on you!
Beating your officers, cursing yourselves,
Where have you hid yourself?
He's never any thing but your true servant.
Return and tell him so: we know the worst.
Is ruminated, plotted and set down,
thee a lie, spit in my face, call me horse. Thou
Whiles he was hastening, in the chase, it seems,
Would I were dead, but that, methinks, already--
voluntary: no man is beaten voluntary: Ajax was
I never did incense his majesty
Good king of cats, nothing but one of your nine
you now to your gossip-like humour: you break jests
My mother dead!
That's as much as to say, bastard virtues; that,
she will, say what she will, take all, pay all, go
Nay, but hear me:
Although against her will, as it appears
How! me?
Of Bedlam beggars, who, with roaring voices,
Nor make replies of loathness: take the hint
And with my nails digg'd stones out of the ground,
Wherein thou art less happy being fear'd
One of them is well known, my gracious lord,
Turning the accomplishment of many years
But for your health and your digestion sake,
Exeunt
But what from Rome?
O, quick, or I am gone.
afternoon as she went to the garden for parsley to
The Lady Constance speaks not from her faith,
Either thou wilt die, by God's just ordinance,
This little one shall make it holiday.
Such as we see when men restrain their breath
Being mechanical, you ought not walk
She has a good face, speaks well, and has excellent
Ye tell me what ye wish for both,--my ruin:
Why, so I did.
him.
Or Jove for's power to thunder. His heart's his mouth:
Lysander's love, that would not let him bide,
For me, if I be gored with Mowbray's spear:
If he be credulous and trust my tale,
For thou hast kill'd the sweetest innocent
The hands of Romans!
No less in truth than life: my first false speaking
Did I redeem; a wreck past hope he was:
Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion.
And frantic outrage, end thy damned spleen;
I loved Ophelia: forty thousand brothers
Your sense pursues not mine: either you are ignorant,
Our doctors say this is no month to bleed.
Believe me, I speak as my understanding instructs me
Fidele, sir.
what I am: I will now take the lecher; he is at my
Enter the PRINCESS, KATHARINE, ROSALINE, and MARIA
Would they were basilisks, to strike thee dead!
That Antony speak in his funeral:
It sendeth forth to skirmish. One to ten!
Who's best in favour. Let the music knock it.
Where is he?
Since Cleopatra died,
came, saw, and overcame: he came, one; saw two;
There is more in it. Cousin Ganymede!
Master Antipholus,--
Even now, we heard a hollow burst of bellowing
Since he's so great can make his will his act,
And, for I am richer than to hang by the walls,
Anon, anon, sir. Look down into the Pomgarnet, Ralph.
While other jests are something rank on foot,
The utter loss of all the realm of France.
In any of their courts.
This is the end of the charge:--you, constable, are
Shall I set down your answer so?
Where sighs and groans and shrieks that rend the air
There is a word will Priam turn to stone;
Or of the deadly seven, it is the least.
Of lullaby to bring her babe asleep.
Having so swift and excellent a wit
Let not light see my black and deep desires:
Why then it sorts, brave warriors, let's away.
SCENE IV. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Give me no help in lamentation;
So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.
No, not a word; how can I grace my talk,
To ORLANDO
I will praise an eel with the same praise.
Is it concluded that he shall be protector?
No more my king, for he dishonours me,
And I am nothing slow to slack his haste.
Through the house give gathering light,
Signior Lodovico?
But constant, he were perfect. That one error
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
Than all the complete armour that thou wear'st!
As foolery in the wise, when wit doth dote;
I have a letter guessingly set down,
Love takes the meaning in love's conference.
You come hither, my lord, to marry this lady.
That left the camp to sin in Lucrece' bed?
This is the strangest tale that ever I heard.
So the life that died with shame
Is at the nuptial of his son a guest
What do you say, Cesario? Good my lord,--
O, stay and hear; your true love's coming,
In spite of pope or dignities of church,
God give you good morrow, master Parson.
That thou mightst repossess the crown in peace;
For good Marina, that her daughter
But if you ever chance to have a child,
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
As are the swelling Adriatic seas:
With true-love showers.
Fear me not.
Do curse the grace that with such grace hath bless'd them,
According to the phrase or the addition
How is that?
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
Her reason to herself is only known,
What, Warwick, wilt thou leave the town and fight?
Indeed, brother-in-law was the farthest off you
Nay you must call me Rosalind. Come, sister, will you go?
delivers it.
For Livia and Octavia, to induce
To you, the liver, heart and brain of Britain,
What name, fair lady?
My lord, here is my bill.
'Tis so with me. Let us withdraw together,
Talk with respect and swear but now and then,
Having the fearful flying hare in sight,
Who, as you say, took pains to get this son,
Therefore, merchant, I'll limit thee this day
Speaks Suffolk as he thinks?
prayers. Fare you well, my lord; and believe this
What is become of Bushy? where is Green?
The fortress of it; for better might we
What cursed foot wanders this way to-night,
they always use to laugh at nothing.
[Aside]  Ay, by my faith, the field is honourable;
Drum and Colours
What would you have me be, an I be not a woman?
tying his new shoes with old riband? and yet thou
I do desire we may be better strangers.
Hence! I am qualmish at the smell of leek.
nights: your cousin, my lady, takes great
Unto the sweet bird's throat,
Only I carry winged time
Whoever wins, on that side shall I lose
Hath trifled former knowings.
Not three hours' travel from this very place.
What heard you him say else?
O, but for my love, day would turn to night!
as it hath breadth: it is just so high as it is,
I may not answer.
I would exult, man: you know, he brought me out o'
To answer from our home; the several messengers
it comes to pass oft that a terrible oath, with a
Prince Bassianus, leave to plead my deeds:
No more than I am well acquitted of.
'Tis time
Witness, you ever-burning lights above,
My lord the Duke of Buckingham, and Earl
Well, would I were gently put out of office
Exeunt all but MACBETH, and an attendant
And by the buried hand of warlike Gaunt,
And that he does I weep: myself am Naples,
To learn the order of my fingering,
the weather or our office.
Cry woe, destruction, ruin and decay:
uneasy to get the cause of my son's resort thither.
You chide at him, offending twice as much;
That we remain your friend; and so, adieu.
Tennis-balls, my liege.
Richmond is on the seas.
A most arch heretic, a pestilence
And that is false thou dost report to us.
As you are now, for you are cold and stem;
Love-news, in faith.
Snatch at his master that doth tarre him on.
[Aside]  Some treason, masters: yet stand close.
Thou, now a-dying, say'st thou flatterest me.
To Salisbury; the rest march on with me.
chance to fail, he hath sentenced himself.
This old moon wanes! she lingers my desires,
Thither will I with you; for little office
You may take my word, my lord; I know, no man
What, are you married?
This amorous surfeiter would have donn'd his helm
What! has your king married the Lady Grey!
To fly the favours of so good a king;
One of my sex; no woman's face remember,
Call it so.
That were a jest indeed! they have not so little
Then all too late I bring this fatal writ,
I would not yield to be your house's guest;
Cut off by course of justice,--
You, cousin Hereford, upon pain of life,
The flower-de-luce being one! O, these I lack,
And he ended the market.
As touching France, to give a greater sum
If she be made of white and red,
Marry, that can Hero;
Of the great Duke of Buckingham.
But now to task the tasker: good Boyet,
In truth, sir, and she is pretty, and honest, and
In likeness of a new untrimmed bride.
Re-enter ARIEL, invisible
And was he not in England prisoner?
Sir, March is wasted fourteen days.
Do so, for it is worth the listening to. These nine
ANTIPHOLUS
And turn'd into the extremity of love.
but even now. Whoa, ho, hoa!
Embark his royalty; and his brave fleet
To lock up honesty and honour from
For your life you durst not!
For things that are not to be remedied.
Re-enter BIONDELLO
A bloody deed! almost as bad, good mother,
From whom I have received not only greetings,
To know, when two authorities are up,
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use; 'tis for the head.
And wash their hands in Bassianus' blood.
I am arrived for fruitful Lombardy,
Richer than that which four successive kings
In puny battle slay me.
Exeunt JULIET and Nurse
For, as I hear, the king is fled to London,
E'en as Apemantus does now; hate a lord with my heart.
Come, sir, you peevishly threw it to her; and her
Misshapen in the conduct of them both,
That I should fear to die? Therefore proceed.
Not all the dukes of waterish Burgundy
As if a channel should be call'd the sea,--
Be sad, as we would make ye: think ye see
And more convenient is he for my hand
Even as an adder when she doth unroll
But he loves Caesar best; yet he loves Antony:
That the precipitation might down stretch
I will so. What's the matter?
At Ely House.
I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers.
Had he none else to make a stale but me?
But who was this?
But sup them well and look unto them all:
First kiss me, Kate, and we will.
Because I would be sure to have all well,
Now, therefore, be it known to noble Lewis,
Reads
What now? how chance thou art return'd so soon?
O, a brave man!
Shore his old thread in twain: did he live now,
SCENE I. Windsor. Before PAGE's house.
When I shal l dwell with worms, and my poor name
Yet fruits that blossom first will first be ripe:
But I will tarry; the fool will stay,
And so, God give you quiet rest to-night!
Debts wither 'em to nothing; be men like
An't please
Although they were flesh'd villains, bloody dogs,
Herein you war against your reputation
Hast ta'en with equal thanks: and blest are those
Thou grumblest and railest every hour on Achilles,
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
chaste mistress the moon, under whose countenance we steal.
Than settled age his sables and his weeds,
Where is he?
Good night, and good repose.
You are betroth'd both to a maid and man.
Re-enter LUCIUS
Myself hath often over-heard them say,
Nay, you shall hear, Master Brook, what I have
Any beginning to this peevish odds;
Dost thou attend me?
not how oft. Where be your gibes now? your
that cannot I help. Well, proceed.
That I this day of him received the chain,
Sweet prince, why speak not you?
The one I'll slay, the other slayeth me.
the peace.
Then rose again and bow'd her to the people:
That through thy bosom makes me see thy heart.
M,--Malvolio; M,--why, that begins my name.
This sword of mine shall give them instant way,
I am betray'd, by keeping company
Shall ill become the flower of England's face,
Would feed on one another? What's their seeking?
Again!
Please you, my lord, there are certain
Lord Hastings will not yield to our complots?
these clothes are good enough to drink in; and so be
That should be silent: if young Doricles
lord the king, thy royal husband: the pretence
To PISANIO
It is not meet the council hear a riot; there is no
And quarter'd in her heart! he doth espy
a man when King Pepin of France was a little boy, as
For me, my lords,
Against the blown rose may they stop their nose
woman indeed, one that, in the authority of her
blank verse, why, they were never so truly turned
We'll hear him. Noble Antony, go up.
Good Master Ford, be contented: you wrong yourself too much.
Excludes all pity from our threatening looks.
Under whose conduct came those powers of France
A little daughter: for the sake of it,
hanging: make the rope of his destiny our cable,
As I! foh! fie upon thee!
I am sorry for thee, friend; 'tis the duke's pleasure,
When I spake darkly what I purposed,
That would be rid of such an enemy;
Disdainful to be tried by't: 'tis not well.
To your obedience fifty fortresses,
Like Turk to Christian: women's gentle brain
Foul whisperings are abroad: unnatural deeds
Will serve to strangle thee, a rush will be a beam
SCENE III. Venice. A public place.
To GONERIL
Even so, Lucilius.
Ay, sir; so his mother says, if I may believe her.
big enough; if it be too big for your thief, your
As I have spoken for you all my best
To sing them too: when you do dance, I wish you
Upon my wretched women, that so long
kiss your hand, and so I leave you. By this hand,
Desolate, desolate, will I hence and die:
monstrous members.
Come, come, Lord Mortimer; you are as slow
Exeunt
I have no gift at all in shrewishness;
And this shall all be buried by my death,
To weep there!
Alcibiades. Go; thou wast born a bastard, and thou't
Cry, cry! Troy burns, or else let Helen go.
This is another prisoner that I saved.
Some gentle order; and then we shall be blest
In that nook-shotten isle of Albion.
I thought upon Antonio when he told me;
occasion may detain us longer. I dare swear he is no
They are all fire and every one doth shine,
God's peace! I would not lose so great an honour
I pray thee, peace: my soul is full of sorrow.
Where meet we?
And he beseech'd me to entreat your majesties
And none of you will bid the winter come
Caesar, thou canst not die by traitors' hands,
That he shall shrink under my courtesy.
There is a litter ready; lay him in 't,
To find another that is like to thee,
As if the strings were thine, shouldst know of this.
For lately we were bound, as you are now
if she be fair, 'tis the better for her; an she be
No, truly not; although, until last night,
For Warwick bids you all farewell to meet in heaven.
For they do prank them in authority,
SCENE IV. The forest.
And steal immortal blessing from her lips,
Meantime, this deep disgrace in brotherhood
Thunder. Enter the three Witches meeting HECATE
Dues! Whence are you?
And with our sprightly port make the ghosts gaze:
Oftener upon her knees than on her feet,
Is it not like the king?
Fair Helena, who more engilds the night
done me wrong, doth cause me, as my father, being, I
Put not another sin upon my head,
Do breed unnatural troubles: infected minds
Exit
And I, as I love Hastings with my heart!
for he, being in love, could not see to garter his
I, then in London keeper of the king,
With this regard their currents turn awry,
His faults lie open to the laws; let them,
The lives of many. The cease of majesty
That Henry born at Monmouth should win all
Publius, Publius, what hast thou done?
At three and two years old, I stole these babes;
Most mighty liege, and my companion peers,
And told me I had turn'd the wrong side out:
I prithee, Lucio, do me this kind service:
I only swore to study with your grace
If thou dost bend and pray and fawn for him,
To this dead man than you shall see me pay.
Exceed account; but the full sum of me
Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard
They say, my lords, 'ira furor brevis est;' but yond
Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
However this may gall him with some cheque,
All that was mine in Silvia I give thee.
Would he were fatter! But I fear him not:
Farewell, thou latter spring! farewell, All-hallown summer!
Thou know'st I have power
Renowned Titus, flourishing in arms.
And so, my good lord mayor, we bid farewell.
The which he loved passing well.'
'Twere best he did.
More moving-delicate and full of life,
Is empty on the back of Montague,--
Near this lack-love, this kill-courtesy.
We know his handiwork: therefore, good mother,
I would to God all strifes were well compounded.
head, nor no money in your purse? Your eyes are in
The virtue of his will: but you must fear,
players as ever I see!
See here in bloody lines I have set down;
soon moody to be moved.
any in Rome.
Virtue itself turns vice, being misapplied;
So deep suspicion, where all faith was meant.
Our will is Antony be took alive;
With bloody passage led your wars even to
Thou orphans' father art,
Made emulous missions 'mongst the gods themselves
'tis not amiss we tender our loves to him, in this
the woman and I will do as we may.
all men's; and for a hand, and a foot, and a body,
A rhyme I learn'd even now
To nothing temporal.
What should she remember?
She cannot deny it.
My wits begin to turn.
Enter LAERTES, armed; Danes following
That hath received some unrecuring wound.
Now you have taken the pains to set it together,
The glistering of this present, as my tale
I will tell you.
As Paris hath. Beshrew my very heart,
The boy disdains me,
He held them sixpence all too dear,
Who's there?
Not to deny this imposition;
Each takes his fellow for an officer.
Welcome before the gates of Angiers, duke.
'Tis good you know not that you are his heirs;
himself aggrieved at this glove; that is all; but I
mortal in nature, so is all nature in love mortal in folly.
Then let the earth be drunken with our blood:
A man throng'd up with cold: my veins are chill,
Re-enter GRATIANO
Take him you on.
Are brought your eyes; what need speak I?
To give my poor host freedom.
Takes off my manhood: I have belied a lady,
Some comet or unusual prodigy?
O, help me here!
The tackle of my heart is crack'd and burn'd,
I think so.
I prithee, put them off.
Julia I lose and Valentine I lose:
Come, my lord, I'll lead you to your tent.
Dies
Unless he do profane, steal, or usurp.
I will go before, sir. Mistress, look out at
And see my wealthy Andrew dock'd in sand,
Who is here? What, are you packing, sirrah?
Your royal ear abused. First, hath this woman
Shall pitch a field when we are dead.
Well, my lord.
March afar off, and shot within
Though thou speak'st truth,
Shall I return this answer to the king?
Exeunt
They be alone.
I would on great occasion speak with you.
Why, this is excellent.
Had lived to put on this: so had you saved
Ay, that change is the spite.
How many times shall Caesar bleed in sport,
there. Be the players ready?
I am not barren to bring forth complaints
I minded him how royal 'twas to pardon
But win the noble Brutus to our party--
Ay, and the particular confirmations, point from
ne'er have use for 'em, and would most resemble
Is thy master stirring?
What was his reason?
Marry, he must have a long spoon that must eat with
This friendly treaty of our threaten'd town?
Than such a murder is.
That whatsoever I did bid thee do,
Tell me, Apollo, for thy Daphne's love,
I have the placing of the British crown.
My love thou art, my love I think.
Isidore's Servant	A plague upon him, dog!
To be adopted heir to Frederick.
Be gone! I will not hear thy vain excuse;
O, she is rich in beauty, only poor,
[Kneeling]  O you mighty gods!
Que dit-il? que je suis semblable a les anges?
'Alack, why does he so?'
To liberty and not to banishment.
disclosed.
Our general forces at Bridgenorth shall meet.
compound with the major part of your syllables: and
He did, my lord.
Were not my doors lock'd up and I shut out?
warmed and cooled by the same winter and summer, as
And better would it fit Achilles much
I would esteem him worth a dozen such.
You told us of some suit; what is't, Laertes?
Even till unfenced desolation
Sweet practiser, thy physic I will try,
The princess dowager? how goes her business?
mile of my court:' Hath this been proclaimed?
And such an instrument I was to use.
And most forsworn, to keep what thou dost swear.
Our isle be made a nourish of salt tears,
Strive mightily, but eat and drink as friends.
Sound, music! Come, my queen, take hands with me,
The precedent was full as long a-doing:
or, Francis, o' Thursday; or indeed, Francis, when
must, that's certain, or forswear to wear iron about you.
or nine wise words to speak to you, which these
Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA
Say Warwick was our anchor; what of that?
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby
take it in what sense thou wilt.
For we do fear the law? What company
about him are under the line, they need no other
to the complexion of a goose! A fault done first in
What should this be?
Thee and the devil alike. What ho, Pisanio!
bounty's foe;
I jest to Oberon and make him smile
Let not sloth dim your horrors new-begot:
With the most noble blood of all this world.
I ratify this my rich gift. O Ferdinand,
To cleave a heart in twain.
And smooth the frowns of war with peaceful looks.
apiece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
Ay, and it makes men hate one another.
Pour the sweet milk of concord into hell,
To BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
Rest, sword; thou hast thy fill of blood and death.
And minister in their steads! to general filths
Thou that beget'st him that did thee beget;
That hath a mint of phrases in his brain;
Let me give humble thanks for all at once.
shepherd deliver the manner how he found it:
With thy embracements to my wife's allies,
They call it Agincourt.
And military title capital
O that your frowns would teach my smiles such skill!
Or the hard rein which both of them have borne
Herself the glory of a creditor,
From too much liberty, my Lucio, liberty:
Exit
Doth it not then our eyelids sink? I find not
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
To praise his faith which I would have dispraised.
And therefore, as we hither came in peace,
'Wind-changing Warwick now can change no more.'
Which they dare swear peculiar: your case is better.
sixpence a day: an the duke had not given him
He and his lady both are at the lodge
Ay, to such mercy as his ruthless arm,
Could speak this with as free a soul as I do!
The sweet degrees that this brief world affords
But, soft! my door is lock'd. Go bid them let us in.
If Henry were recall'd to life again,
I pray now, call her.
the palsied intercession of such a decayed dotant as
woman; for in the shape of man, Master Brook, I fear
With bracelets of thy hair, rings, gawds, conceits,
ANTIPHOLUS
Then, venom, to thy work.
Where is my lady?
On the unsteadfast footing of a spear.
And takes her farewell of the glorious sun!
will pour some in thy other mouth.
Herself most chastely absent: after this,
Fair princess, you have lost much good sport.
O'er-picturing that Venus where we see
Let that one article rank with the rest;
A queen, and daughter to a king, inter me.
His love to Antony. But as for Caesar,
To fust in us unused. Now, whether it be
bringings-forth, and he shall appear to the
Exeunt all but Boy
Which he hath left so shapeless and so rude.
It made me laugh to see the villain run.
But this is not the best. Look, prithee, Charmian,
rather, the prophecy like the parrot, 'beware the
A child-like office.
Their pangs of love, with other incident throes
He is so plaguy proud that the death-tokens of it
Almost afraid to know itself. It cannot
Some of your French crowns have no hair at all, and
Here is to Caesar!
Are richly come to harbour suddenly:
Blow like sweet roses in this summer air.
Sound!
For if they could, Cupid himself would blush
Which I have done, because unworthily
I'll tent him to the quick: if he but blench,
I especially think, under Mars.
A man, if I live; and this, by, in, and without, upon
The sweetness of affiance! Show men dutiful?
And, madam, these for you; from whom I know not.
Her parentage; being demanded that,
distance, thy montant. Is he dead, my Ethiopian? is
accordant, he meant to take the present time by the
If heaven would make me such another world
To set against me for your merriment:
A Sennet. Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM and CATESBY
Why should excuse be born or e'er begot?
No matter what; he's poor, and that's revenge
Renowned Titus, more than half my soul,--
modest terms; for I am one of those gentle ones
Let it flow this way, my good lord.
I pray thee, sort thy heart to patience;
Now, in good time!
Almost as well as I do know myself:
Pray you, be gone:
I think she'll sooner prove a soldier
Even in the fan and wind of your fair sword,
Enter SIR OLIVER MARTEXT
To laugh at gibing boys and stand the push
Noble Sebastian,
And go the fools among.
Here's such ado to make no stain a stain
I should do Brutus wrong, and Cassius wrong,
On mine own sword? whiles I see lives, the gashes
They are dissolved: hang 'em!
is worn, the jest may remain after the wearing sole singular.
Nay, I'll read it first, by your favour.
Farewell: buy food, and get thyself in flesh.
Well, what then? what then?
back, will I ravish her: first kill him, and in her
That wounds the unsisting postern with these strokes.
your breeding.
But it confounds the breather. He should have lived,
be as it may: though patience be a tired mare, yet
I'll hide my silver beard in a gold beaver
Well, give her that ring and therewithal
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon,
dangerous courtesy.
steal as in a castle, cocksure; we have the receipt
Ah, dear, if I be so,
Pluck from the memory a rooted sorrow,
How now! who has put in?
No judge indifferent, nor no more assurance
And had his highness in his infancy
Nay, but you will?
sighing every minute and groaning every hour would
The taper burneth in your closet, sir.
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Kneels
Have we pass'd through, not without much content
Whom every thing becomes, to chide, to laugh,
Because we now are full. It was thought meet
Must be as 'tis. My gentle babe Marina, whom,
Her infinite variety: other women cloy
We stood to't in good time.
You spurn'd me such a day; another time
If you come slack of former services,
I hear some noise within; dear love, adieu!
Exit TYRREL
I am a gentleman of blood and breeding;
And if he hear thee, thou wilt anger him.
Unhappy fortune! by my brotherhood,
The gunner and his mate
Enter two Lords
When she did think my master loved her well,
To Italy; and there at Venice gave
So did we woo
in him than there is milk in a male tiger; that
SCENE I. London. The palace.
Your over-kindness doth wring tears from me!
dogs bark so? be there bears i' the town?
Old wither'd plants, to wail it with their age.
O, I should have a heavy miss of thee,
It is a judgment maim'd and most imperfect
If you be she, I do entreat your patience
If he revenge it not, yet will his friends;
Austria and France shoot in each other's mouth:
Corrupt the tender honour of a maid:
And take my milk for gall, you murdering ministers,
Ay me, poor man, how pale and wan he looks!
Let him approach.
Sweet, now, silence!
ne veux point que vous abaissiez votre grandeur en
Peace be at your labour, honest fishermen.
Than my fortunes to me.
You not your child well loving, yet I find
In our well-found successes, to report
Have I train'd up: those arts they have as I
You know no more than others; but you frame
My soul consents not to give sovereignty.
Draws those heaven-moving pearls from his poor eyes,
Esteem as foil wherein thou art to set
Finely attired in a robe of white.
The nature of bad news infects the teller.
This virtue and this moral discipline,
we'll unkennel the fox. Let me stop this way first.
Doth valour's show and valour's worth divide
And make thy fortunes proud: the blow thou hadst
That unassailable holds on his rank,
Brief abstract and record of tedious days,
There is thy gold, worse poison to men's souls,
language you will: though you understand it not
England, thou hast not saved one drop of blood,
SCENE I. A room in LEONTES' palace.
Enter STEPHANO
The stones of Rome to rise and mutiny.
If thou and nature can so gently part,
you: nay, I pray you, let me go.
Exit
Some six miles off the duke is with the soldiers;
Even in these looks I made.
mightest as well have known all our names as thus to
No, by no means.
And warriors faint! why, 'twere perpetual shame.
On Holmedon's plains. Of prisoners, Hotspur took
who, being more than sand-blind, high-gravel blind,
So bloodily hast struck?
these boiled brains of nineteen and two-and-twenty
to dinner: besides your cheer, you shall have
There is no following her in this fierce vein:
He hath studied her will, and translated her will,
This oracle of comfort has so pleased me,
'Hold, friends! friends, part!' and, swifter than
mighty business in hand.
Enter PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH, and MUSTARDSEED
Who answer'd him, they came from Buckingham.
Knocking within
Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out,
pity him, they took from me the use of mine own
companies, slaves as ragged as Lazarus in the
Let him alone, for I remember now
bricklayer.
Shall I speak a word in your ear?
May soon return to this our suffering country
But kept a reservation to be follow'd
All fortune to the good Simonides!
known to you; and though we have there a substitute
ever and a day.
Even in these honest mean habiliments:
Attended on by many a lord and knight.
Terras Astraea reliquit:
Gnawing with thy teeth; and be this dismal sight
As patches set upon a little breach
To outlook conquest and to win renown
And, mutually participate, did minister
He wonders to what end you have assembled
Speak to thy father ere thou yield thy breath!
Who after me hath many a weary step
all. I prithee, take the cork out of thy mouth that
All love the womb that their first being bred,
That were we talking of, and of his anger.
And in my standard bear the arms of York
I will not trouble thee, my child; farewell:
Sweet sir, much better than I was; I can stand and
Which is the side that I must go withal?
Gregory, o' my word, we'll not carry coals.
When you and he came back from Ravenspurgh.
I prithee, recount some of them.
Of the false sweet bait that we lay for it.
ACT IV
Whiles hounds and horns and sweet melodious birds
monster, but an infinite loss.
Enter Pandar, Bawd, and BOULT
I do know
Guilty, my lord, guilty! I confess, I confess.
What doth she say, my Lord of Buckingham?
To EDGAR
Or, for my diamond, the chain you promised,
Ay, all you have laid your heads together--
You were pretty lordings then?
Indeed, I have had earnest: but I cannot with
ACT I
You must translate: 'tis fit we understand them.
the means I shall then have to prefer them; and the
The measure done, I'll watch her place of stand,
The providence that's in a watchful state
Well, and say that Marcius
In simple and pure soul I come to you.
And thou, his yoke-fellow of equity,
Saint Bennet, sir, may put you in mind; one, two, three.
Romans, countrymen, and lovers! hear me for my
But what thou art, God, thou, and I do know;
SCENE III. Paris. The KING's palace.
There do I give to you and Jessica,
Through Alexandria make a jolly march;
Chiron, thy years want wit, thy wit wants edge,
Peter, forsooth.
Gentlemen and soldiers, pardon me; I will not combat
But come thy ways; well go along together,
the hardest voice of her behavior, to be Englished
If this might be a brother.
You gods that made me man, and sway in love,
As the ox hath his bow, sir, the horse his curb and
To call upon his own, and humbly prays you
Halloo, halloo, loo, loo!
brains. I will fetch you light and paper and ink.
You would not do me thus much injury.
Exeunt Portia and Nerissa
but for bragging and telling her fantastical lies:
Enter PETRUCHIO and HORTENSIO with meat
Thine enmity's most capital: thou barr'st us
No doubt they rose up early to observe
Were all thy children kind and natural!
I am not married, Caesar: let me hear
Such a fellow is not to be talked withal. Away with
Up and down, up and down,
An if thy stumps will let thee play the scribe.
Upon their first lord's neck. But tell me true--
So needful for this present: it strikes me, past
If it be so, then both depart to him;
O Jesu, this is excellent sport, i' faith!
Exeunt
That shone so brightly when this boy was got,
The good King Simonides, do you call him.
That I have ta'en away this old man's daughter,
Must you with hot irons burn out both mine eyes?
hai!
And make my wars on you: look to't: come on;
She swooned almost at my pleasing tale,
As then the messenger,--
No.
Doth not thy embassage belong to me,
In gross rebellion and detested treason:
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
Than carry it but by the suit of the gentry to him,
come but in, as others do, to try with him the
No, my good lord;
Serve God, love me and mend. There will I leave
To kindle their dry stubble; and their blaze
Anticipating time with starting courage.
A laughter.
That daughter there of Spain, the Lady Blanch,
Who shuns thy love shuns all his love in me.
But passion lends them power, time means, to meet
too well, for there he fell in love. I have heard
A woman that Lord Brutus took to wife:
uneducated, unpruned, untrained, or rather,
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages,
Her eyes, her hair, her cheek, her gait, her voice,
Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, from
Most monstrous! oh!
Which fear, not reverence, makes thee to except.
I' the way toward Dover, do it for ancient love;
ACT IV
I will bestow a breakfast to make you friends; and
Brought hither to Pentapolis,
Whom I, with this obedient steel, three inches of it,
When he to madding Dido would unfold
In the brave squares of war: yet now--No matter.
Swears he will shoot no more but play with sparrows
Look where my ranting host of the Garter comes:
If Cassius might have ruled.
entertainment.
ANTIPHOLUS
The king, sir, hath laid, that in a dozen passes
That are to censure them.
An she agree, within her scope of choice
Whatever I shall happen to devise.
His father and I were soldiers together; to whom I
Why, thou full dish of fool, from Troy.
may be chosen out of the gross band of the
The warlike feats I have done, his spirits fly out
Enter GREMIO, LUCENTIO in the habit of a mean man;  PETRUCHIO, with HORTENSIO as a musician; and TRANIO, with BIONDELLO bearing a lute and books
One word more, honest neighbours. I pray you watch
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
But did you not request to have it cut?
The bounty and the benison of heaven
No, nor of any shores:
Therefore, sirrah,
Let nature crush the sides o' the earth together
new ship to purge melancholy and air himself: for,
And breathe short-winded accents of new broils
not? come, tell me true: it shall be the better for you.
Lucilius' Servant	Not yet.
My words express my purpose.
And say, what store of parting tears were shed?
Without the privity o' the king, to appoint
your execution. If you think it meet, compound with
With dry convulsions, shorten up their sinews
He cannot want fifty five hundred talents.
By heaven, you do me wrong.
My surname, Coriolanus: the painful service,
And ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
From these devourers to be banished!
In fellest manner execute your aims.
You mistake; I mean the pound,--a pinfold.
With whom an upright zeal to right prevails
Here comes his mother.
Toad, that under cold stone
If ever Bassianus, Caesar's son,
My dear lord,
I thought to have told thee of it, but I fear'd
chiefly loved: 'twas Aeneas' tale to Dido; and
You ever-gentle gods, take my breath from me:
A kneaded clod; and the delighted spirit
How can that be, when you have the voice of the king
Would not be friendly to.
And who abstains from meat that is not gaunt?
fanatical phantasimes, such insociable and
Her love is not the hare that I do hunt:
Hector, by this, is arming him in Troy;
Believe 't, my lord and I have made an end;
Whose he is we are, and that is, Caesar's.
And do upon mine altar sacrifice.
discommend so much. I know, sir, I am no
court. I think Crab, my dog, be the sourest-natured
The pauses that he makes.
Who can do good on him?
If thou wilt weep my fortunes, take my eyes.
Enter SIR ANDREW
Which most gibingly, ungravely, he did fashion
Here didst thou fall; and here thy hunters stand,
And not to grace an awful princely sceptre.
I know that we shall have him well to friend.
No;
Tempering extremities with extreme sweet.
And, whilst the babbling echo mocks the hounds,
And some such strange bull leap'd your father's cow,
Which cannot in their huge and proper life
Of our most sovereign king.
Can couch for fear, but I will find them out;
No point, with my knife.
Was given me by one that had some power,
Truly, my name is Cinna.
Meaning henceforth to trouble you no more.
cottages princes' palaces. It is a good divine that
What's the cause?
Leaving no heir begotten of his body--
inch narrow to an ell broad!
What is this?
Ay, no; no, ay; for I must nothing be;
And hellish obstinacy tie thy tongue,
Drums in his ear, at which he starts and wakes,
I can heat it, boy.
For one poor grain or two!
Yea, even the slightest worship of his time,
Nay, tarry; I'll go along with thee
That I beheld:
Long live so, and so die.
Against the general enemy Ottoman.
If sad and merry madness equal be.
Titinius' face is upward.
To act in safety. There is none but he
'I go, sir!'--Take the bonds along with you,
Come, Grey, come, Vaughan, let us all embrace:
approach; and, in her invention and Ford's wife's
There's a trim rabble let in: are all these
Is't known who did this more than bloody deed?
Can I go forward when my heart is here?
To have me fold up Parca's fatal web?
thou, that my master is become a notable lover?
Near to the walls, by some apparent sign
My part thereof that I have done to her.
That little cares for buying any thing.
If you meet a thief, you may suspect him, by virtue
I loved the maid I married; never man
Cham's beard, do you any embassage to the Pigmies,
Wine, wine, wine! What service
Who is as free from touch or soil with her
But that it bear this trial and last love;
Serving-Men	Open the gates unto the lord protector,
Something particular: his coin, ships, legions,
'We have seen better days.' Let each take some;
'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
In right of Arthur do I claim of thee:
And not my husband's secrets?
You have not been a-bed, then?
Let us not burthen our remembrance with
He'll be as full of quarrel and offence
Why, my negation hath no taste of madness.
Yet swear not, lest ye be forsworn again.
O death, made proud with pure and princely beauty!
garments, your lowliness; and what your highness
Exit
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
For each true word, a blister! and each false
Knowing by Paulina that the oracle
O gentle Proteus, Love's a mighty lord,
That you, his friend, are in; and sends me forth--
And question'dst every sail: if he should write
Does not attend my taking. Whiles I may 'scape,
I shall have such a life!
Not that I love you not.
You're great in fortune.
I think I had; I never did deny it.
house; he cannot 'scape me; 'tis impossible he
Divine his downfall? Say, where, when, and how,
Rather than render back, out with your knives,
I'll go with thee:
Some of us would lie low.
Tender your own good fortune?
If this be true, which makes me pale to read it?
I will desist;
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
By Him that raised me to this careful height
Of a certain knight that swore by his honour they
O Cassius, if you could
We say befits the hour.
The common people by numbers swarm to us.
Flourish. Exeunt KING RICHARD II and train
His faults in him seem as the spots of heaven,
Or, being open, put into his hands
'Tis well: the citizens,
Remember our reward, when the deed is done.
Yes, I accept her, for she well deserves it;
Exit
The bloody parliament shall this be call'd,
You are a royal one, and we obey you.
that keeps the prison: he that goes in the calf's
Have ever made me sour my patient cheek,
Flourish. Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR and his train
Only she comes too short: that I profess
I would your spirit were easier for advice,
And thou shalt be canonized, cardinal;
Is not to walk in.
So many hours must I contemplate;
Yonder he is coming, this way, Sir Hugh.
Donalbain.
The bird of dawning singeth all night long:
Should not be able to encounter mine.
With mistful eyes, or they will issue too.
be a follower, but now you are a leader. Whether
Exeunt
Which is so serious. Let us bury him,
Thy promises are like Adonis' gardens
So he that doth redeem her thence might wear
house is better than this rain-water out o' door.
He has our voices, sir.
He, doing so, put forth to seas,
His cloister'd flight, ere to black Hecate's summons
As cloudy men use to their adversaries,
Upon a lazy bed the livelong day
But he, my lord, is gone to Ravenspurgh,
That still I lay upon my mother's head,
I cannot joy, until I be resolved
SCENE II. Padua. LUCENTIO'S house.
Such is the lightness of you common men.
At Crosby Place, there shall you find us both.
This arm shall do it, or this life be spent.
did that I did not this seven year before, I blushed
Gloucester, 'tis true that we are in great danger;
But I will keep her ignorant of her good,
Come down.
Know then, I here forget all former griefs,
Though not for Rome itself.
We will untread the steps of damned flight,
I'll make you amends next, to give you nothing for
Hath made me full of sickness and diseases.
Shall find thee full of labours.
How say'st thou, that Macduff denies his person
last devours them all at a mouthful: such whales
Exeunt all but EXETER
The well-appointed king at Hampton pier
Sure, these are but imaginary wiles
To be the post, in hope of his reward.
Exeunt
He was not taken well; he had not dined:
good masters.
We are enow yet living in the field
Of the young prince your son: send straight for him
That I have borne your father?
Fare you well.
Why, sir, her name's a word; and to dally with that
And will dispatch.
Give me those flowers there, Dorcas. Reverend sirs,
Call Agamemnon head and general.
We are near Tarsus.
If it be love indeed, tell me how much.
horribly in love with her. I may chance have some
SCENE I. Padua. Before LUCENTIO'S house.
They were given me by Claudio; he received them
No, I know that: but it is fit I should commit
I thank you, sir: and, pray you, tell me this:
No impediment between, but that you must
Tarry, sweet Beatrice.
Exeunt
No, no, no.
My friend, thy husband, honest, honest Iago.
he is with that which makes him both without and within.
But mercy is above this sceptred sway;
Soft! whither away so fast?
If your lordship find him not a hilding, hold me no
My heart suspects more than mine eye can see.
Was parmaceti for an inward bruise;
I will not stay behind.
Or like a creature native and indued
ANTIPHOLUS
Sir, your company is fairer than honest. Rest you well.
As Hector's leisure and your bounties shall
And 'twas time for him too, I'll warrant him that:
Where be the sacred vials thou shouldst fill
So will I grow, so live, so die, my lord,
Where the bee sucks. there suck I:
O, I have pass'd a miserable night,
LEONINE runs away
And sheathed their swords for lack of argument:
Take time to pause; and, by the nest new moon--
Remaineth nought, but to inter our brethren,
This shameful lodging.
Shall not be a maid long, unless things be cut shorter.
Whom I most hated living, thou hast made me,
But he would bite none; just as I do now,
SCENE I. The woods. Before Timon's cave.
Keep tune there still, so you will sing it out:
Fully unfold. Thyself and thy belongings
Re-enter LUCIUS
I owe you none till I receive the chain.
Achilles! a drayman, a porter, a very camel.
SCENE II. The same. A public place.
one, sir, in this interlude; one Sir Topas, sir; but
And she, too desperate, would not go with me,
He was a man; this, in respect, a child:
Yea, dost thou jeer and flout me in the teeth?
My fears forgetting manners, to unseal
As little is the wisdom, where the flight
And Thisby, tarrying in mulberry shade,
Give sorrow leave awhile to tutor me
Go, seek him: tell him I would speak with him.
As doth the blushing discontented sun
Refuse you for my judge; whom, yet once more,
If Dauphin and the rest will be but ruled.
That others touch, and often touching will
Grace go with you, sir!
Should with a bond of air, strong as the axle-tree
Values itself so highly that to her
True! I'll be sworn they are true.
His contemplation were above the earth,
And from your sacred vials pour your graces
I think, or in any religion.
Yea, like the stag, when snow the pasture sheets,
had no other books but the score and the tally, thou
Never till then.
Enter BENVOLIO
here follows prose.
Their talk at table, and their thanks at end;
To our fast-closed gates; for at this match,
I would wish me only he.
The envious slanders of her false accusers;
Your highness with herself.
Dies
What majesty should be, what duty is,
A man that more detests, more stirs against,
I pray you, stay; by hell and all hell's torments
That can recover him.
There lies that Tybalt.
To imitate the graces of the gods;
ACT I
I will answer it straight; I have done all this.
Time's pace is so hard that it seems the length of
An they will take it, so; if not, he's plain.
If I my lord, for my opinion bleed,
And hurl the name of husband in my face
Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
I found the effect of love in idleness:
How I have thought of this and of these times,
How many women would do such a message?
Enter KING RICHARD II and Guard
Thunder. First Apparition: an armed Head
shouldst know it; I am an honest man's wife: and,
Show us the way, sir.
A drug of such damn'd nature. Those she has
Faith, mistress, then I have no cause to stay.
a thing as 'tis. I can hardly forbear hurling things
Than but to know't a little.
Here is a coil with protestation!
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,
No motion of the liver, but the palate,
Well, he's not here I seek for.
Nurse, will you go with me into my closet,
Why the law Salique that they have in France
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee!
Nay then you jest, and now I well perceive
I have said.
Exeunt PEMBROKE and STAFFORD
Gramercy, fellow: there, drink that for me.
And sleep in peace, slain in your country's wars!
Did your letters pierce the queen to any
And drawing days out, that men stand upon.
The shady curtains from Aurora's bed,
read thus: therefore perpend, my princess, and give ear.
The jaws of darkness do devour it up:
Metellus Cimber throws before thy seat
They that have done this deed are honourable:
But, hold thee, take this garland on thy brow;
I say, I am your mother.
He hail'd down oaths that he was only mine;
We cannot feel too little, hear too much.
To offer up a weak poor innocent lamb
You knew of his departure, as you know
On safe-guard he  came to me; and did curse
Larded with sweet flowers
Thou most lying slave,
SCENE VI. Another room in the Garter Inn.
Who has a book of all that monarchs do,
There lies the substance: and I thank thee, king,
Saw'st thou the melancholy Lord Northumberland?
A vengeance on your crafty wither'd hide!
Or else for want of idle time, could not again reply;
His marches are expedient to this town,
Bid every noise be still: peace yet again!
Whose dear perfection hearts that scorn'd to serve
Would make them capable. Do not look upon me;
And try your penitence, if it be sound,
O, think my son to be as dear to me!
But lend and give where she is sure to lose;
Exit SILVIUS
Great Duke of Lancaster, I come to thee
What is your pleasure?
Well of his wealth; but of himself, so so.
To save the innocent: any thing possible.
O, our credit comes not in like the commodity, nor
Pale as thy smock! when we shall meet at compt,
Fie on lust and luxury!
Hath thus stood for his country: therefore,
This day shall gentle his condition:
Dies
They break their faith to God as well as us:
Your royal presences be ruled by me:
To one that would do thus. I am half through;
hose in France, his bonnet in Germany and his
Lepidus is high-coloured.
much in request, for the old women were all dead.
You wronged yourself to write in such a case.
To thee, herself, and many a Christian soul,
suffered to bring this woman to evil for your good.
She speaks:
Deceived in thy integrity, deceived
Your honour hath no shriving work in hand.
Then brook abridgment, and your eyes advance,
And turn pre-ordinance and first decree
Than any woman in this waning age.
She is not worth thee, then. What years, i' faith?
Prithee, no more: let him come when he will;
gear the sooner the better.
Your beauty was the cause of that effect;
And betimes I will, to the weird sisters:
Farewell, and thanks.
'Twixt thy seditious countrymen and us,
And not unluckily against the bias.
Yes, Jack, upon instinct.
ANTIPHOLUS
And die as I would do.
All in an hour.
her, she hath such a celerity in dying.
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
But when we in our viciousness grow hard--
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Our substitutes at home shall have blank charters;
Thou tell'st me there is murder in mine eye:
And peg thee in his knotty entrails till
To hold in right and title of the female:
I am no more touch'd than all Priam's sons:
wife was brought to bed of twenty money-bags at a
Have in thy reverence made!
Here 'tis; here's a paper: shall I read it to you?
Unless you will accompany me thither.
And then I told you true: and yet, dear lady,
The quaint musician, amorous Licio;
ACT IV
requiring with a plausible obedience; agree with
Madam, I know not, nor I greatly care not:
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
Even to the disposition that I owe,
Might thus have stood begetting wonder as
Work on,
That Antony may seem to spend his fury
dream of such a thing?
The smile mocking the sigh, that it would fly
discords: here's my fiddlestick; here's that shall
I fear my Thisby's promise is forgot!
Digging
That would reduce these bloody days again,
That now is lying in Marseilles' road.
'But who, O, who had seen the mobled queen--'
When willingly I would have had her here!
Protector be; and God shall be my hope,
Enter FLAVIUS
My lord, they stay for you to give your daughter to
Upon which better part our prayers come in,
To have the courtesy your cradle promised,
Am I so round with you as you with me,
should have borne the humoured letter to her; but I
I fill a place, I know't. How long is't, count,
This be Damascus, be thou cursed Cain,
Why should it thrive and turn to nutriment,
Answer mere nature; bid them flatter thee;
Now lays upon you.
Than Hector's forehead when it spit forth blood
Conceit, my comfort and my injury.
thou art preparing fire for us; look thee, here's
And weigh thy value with an even hand:
And they have wish'd that Lucius were their emperor.
O, speak no more, for I have heard too much.
As my two brothers, happy! but most miserable
herself with laughing.
I would have peace and quietness, but the fool will
A kind of boy, a little scrubbed boy,
And state of bodies would bewray what life
Whom son I dare not call; thou art too base
Dost thou here lie!
How is this justified?
A chilling sweat o'er-runs my trembling joints:
What compass will you wear your farthingale?'
'Against the Duke of Suffolk, for enclosing the
Upon my soul, the hearers will shed tears;
Peace, I pray you.
exercises than formerly he hath appeared.
Is Signior Lucentio within, sir?
Now come, my Ariel! bring a corollary,
This fever, that hath troubled me so long,
For that's the end of human misery.
to-night: I shall beseech your lordship to remain
Strato, thou hast been all this while asleep;
Exit
In name of lendings for your highness' soldiers,
Clarence, whom I, indeed, have laid in darkness,
Nay, then--
You come most carefully upon your hour.
[Aside]  And worse I may be yet: the worst is not
were better my mother had not borne me: I am very
I did not kill your husband.
against the softness of prosperity, with a discovery
Good even, good Master What-ye-call't: how do you,
For my part, I may speak it to my shame,
Making another head to fight again.
To do your pleasure and continue friends.
This in the public eye?
to be constant in any undertaking. There is scarce
Alas, alas!
A wonder, lady! lo, upon thy wish,
It should be now, but that my fear is this,
To seek the beauteous eye of heaven to garnish,
Aside
Drove him to this.
Let's have that, good sir.
You have not sought her help, of whose soft grace
Still you keep o' the windy side of the law: good.
Falls into forfeit: he arrests him on it;
to comfort me.
Sir, I bade them take away you.
Where then, alas, may I complain myself?
Exit SIMPLE
Cried 'Sisters! sisters! Shame of ladies! sisters!
That did disrobe the lion of that robe!
Had made his course to illume that part of heaven
Scorn'dst our brain's flow and those our
And his offence is so, as it appears,
By letters congruing to that effect,
And were his daughter fairer than she is,
Is mustering in his clouds on our behalf
Gloucester, whate'er we like, thou art protector
Lest that the infection of his fortune take
He shall not rule me.
You will break out.
Unlike all others, chaffless. Pray, your pardon.
Before you answer Warwick. His demand
With their own nobleness, which could have turn'd
Arm! arm! the enemy doth make assault!
Abused extremely, and to cry 'That's witty!'
I then did feel full sick, and yet not well,--
They promised me eternal happiness;
That won three fields of Sultan Solyman,
Farewell, fa rewell!
My truth and honour firmly.
Yourself pronounce their office. I must tell you,
casual; a cunning thief, or a that way accomplished
You have brought
Peace!--
brief in goodness; but grace, being the soul of
What's the matter now?
Mistrust of my success hath done this deed.
But time will not permit: all is uneven,
must to the watch.
Account me not your servant.
Dies
And those two counties I will undertake
I look'd toward Birnam, and anon, methought,
Is this Menenius?
The court awards it, and the law doth give it.
If you do find me foul in her report,
What is the fourth?
I am not a day of season,
ANTIPHOLUS
Nor my bad life reft me so much of friends,
Second 'Prentice	Be merry, Peter, and fear not thy master: fight
Most certain, sir.
Every man's conscience is a thousand swords,
Well, if we had of every nation a traveller, we
As we would hear an oracle.
My lord, come you again into my chamber:
And keep her at my cell till Romeo come;
Upon Sir Toby and the lighter people;
The queen your mother, and your brother York,
If I should swear by God's great attributes,
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
You will be shamed for ever.
Were liken'd oft to kingly sepulchres;
Dare ye come forth and meet us in the field?
Nor from the dust of old oblivion raked,
Thanks, provost, for thy care and secrecy:
And you were Isabel! should it then be thus?
It is to be recovered: but that the merit of
Without control, listed to make his prey.
Here, take my ring:
great and trusty business in a main danger fail you.
That we may wander o'er this bloody field
gunpowder Percy, though he be dead: how, if he
Keep leets and law-days and in session sit
Truly, sir, I think you'll hardly win her.
Then bring me to their sights; I'll bear thy blame
Enter LONGAVILLE, with a paper
I would forgive him, for if he love me to madness, I
Since I received command to do this business
Exit
Knocking within. Enter a Porter
It may be I will go with you: but yet I'll pause;
The rage be his, whilst on the earth I rain
Indeed, I bid the base for Proteus.
And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what; yet go:
made a little fault in 'Great.'
Enter MISTRESS FORD
So I do still, by these pickers and stealers.
Though all the world should crack their duty to you,
Alas! and would you take the letter of her?
You are so merciful: I see your end;
But, sure, he is stark mad.
That so she died; for her physician tells me
No, madam.
And weakling, Warwick takes his gift again;
Into the staggers and the careless lapse
All plumed like estridges that with the wind
He hath been in unusual pleasure, and
Say that again.
blind bow-boy's butt-shaft: and is he a man to
Self-harming jealousy! fie, beat it hence!
By men of Epidamnum he and I
How then might your prayers move!
Although particular, shall give a scantling
By heaven, I will,
burnt sack to give me recourse to him and tell him
Play on the lute, beholding the towns burn:
They are all couched in a pit hard by Herne's oak,
DON
If my cap would buy a halter:
I pray you, sir, hold your hand.
A segregation of the Turkish fleet:
Exeunt
Marriage, uncle! alas, my years are young!
And peace, no war, befall thy parting soul!
This way the king will come; this is the way
Exit
Imprison'd and in scarcity of friends,
Base Phrygian Turk!
How many sons of mine hast thou in store,
This, here before you.
they have letters for him. Ere we were two days old
fair; there was good sport at his making, and the
prison. There's but a shirt and a half in all my
Ill blows the wind that profits nobody.
We have seen him set himself.
Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of
Must fall out with men too: what the declined is
In the same figure, like the king that's dead.
For I can take, and Pistol's cock is up,
Believe me, sir, they butt together well.
Enter a Messenger
The fewest roses are cropp'd from the tree
shall read it in--what do you call there?
To mine own fortune and inform'd her fully
Feed yourselves with questioning;
Myself, well mounted, hardly have escaped.
The evil that thou causest to be done,
Go, sickness as thou art!
Not minding whether I dislike or no!
Ay, but not frighted me; therefore I'll sleep again.
There was no winter in't; an autumn 'twas
To help him to his grave immediately!
it hath the excuse of youth and heat of blood,
She is too fair, too wise, wisely too fair,
[Beneath]  Swear.
The tedious minutes I with her have spent.
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EDMUND
A man that apprehends death no more dreadfully but
God save your lordship!
Signior Gratiano? I cry you gentle pardon;
that done, trudge with it in all haste, and carry
And frame your mind to mirth and merriment,
First, noble friend,
That can I;
Hath made his meal on thee?
Who's that? a Frenchman?
I will from hence to-day.
On such regards of safety and allowance
Enter a Messenger
Thou hast, Sebastian, done good feature shame.
Must be to loathe her. O curse of marriage,
If each of you should take this course, how many
Trail your steel pikes. Though in this city he
Which, like the courser's hair, hath yet but life,
Nay, you need not to stop your nose, sir; I spake
Well.
And bring me word what he doth say to thee.
My thoughts are minutes; and with sighs they jar
ANTIPHOLUS
A goodly one; in which there are many confines,
Or in the heart, or in the head?
Standing before the sun of Bolingbroke,
Upon my soul--
letter, being so excellently ignorant, will breed no
For losing ken of Albion's wished coast.
And travelling along this coast, I here am come by chance,
Hail, Caesar, and my lord! hail, most dear Caesar!
SCENE II. The same.
This was a venture, sir, that Jacob served for;
But now is Cade driven back, his men dispersed;
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords
O, I could wish this tavern were my drum!
or her 'budget?' the white will decipher her well
All turn'd to heresy? Away, away,
O, but I fear--How lost you company?
He is within, with two right reverend fathers,
I am not sent to you by my lady, to bid you come
She, on his left side, craving aid for Henry,
As the dead carcasses of unburied men
Such was the very armour he had on
Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man.
Here in our presence! dare you be so bold?
The eldest son of this distressed queen.
Make with you by due turns. Only we still retain
And call them shames? which are indeed nought else
I told you. Lord Angelo, belike thinking me remiss
Caesar was mighty, bold, royal, and loving:
To put a golden sceptre in thy hand
This ornament of knighthood, yea or no.
Rapine and Murder; therefore called so,
Though I am satisfied and need no more
Exeunt KING RICHARD II, some Lords, and a Guard
What dost thou know?
Break not your sleeps for that: you must not think
The head of Cade, whom I in combat slew.
so I, being Master Parson, am Master Parson; for,
Here is my throne, bid kings come bow to it.
My master is of churlish disposition
Patroclus will give me any thing for the
Had been the very sum of my confession:
To go in person with me to my house.
the lady of the house?
Far than Deucalion off: mark thou my words:
And may it be that you have quite forgot
a kinsman not past three quarters of a mile hence,
were so simple, none else would: but you are so
How novelty may move, and parts with person,
Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.
But fathers that bear bags
lips to open. You do love this maid?
By her election may be truly read
O seigneur! le jour est perdu, tout est perdu!
Let there be letters writ to every shire,
A smiling with a sigh, as if the sigh
Be like our warranted quarrel! Why are you silent?
What's pity?
how to choose a man: Romeo! no, not he; though his
You have been a boggler ever:
endless liar, an hourly promise-breaker, the owner
Lie further off yet, do not lie so near.
Than thine own gladness that thou art employ'd.
Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND, CLIFFORD, and WESTMORELAND
ne'er a tongue in my head. Well, if any man in
With her?
Guess thou the rest; King Edward's friends must down,
turn, or the breaking of my Spanish sword.
Nay, hear him.
If not, elsewhere they meet with charity:
to the dead. But will it not live with the living?
may be to the flight of my master.
present at his examination: if he do not, for the
Wherefore to Dover? Let him first answer that.
He that knows better how to tame a shrew,
ANTIPHOLUS
And certainly in strange unquietness.
Enter GRATIANO
To give him annual tribute, do him homage,
Take all the swift advantage of the hours;
Cancel all grudge, repeal thee home again,
But count the world a stranger for thy sake.
SCENE II. A street.
Which in the scuffles of great fights hath burst
By the bad voice.
And like a peacock sweep along his tail;
dearer father in my love.
Alas, my liege, my wife is dead to-night;
If thou hadst drunk to him, 't had been a kindness
their father, making such pitiful dole over them
For I can give his humour the true bent,
May make too great an act: for learn this, Silius;
Enter TALBOT, BEDFORD, BURGUNDY, a Captain, and others
Enter another Messenger
Quicken'd with youthful spleen and warlike rage,
O Priam, yield not to him!
Bardolph, if your majesty know the man: his face is
O, for such means!
obstruction in the blood, this cross-gartering; but
Had she a tongue to speak, now would she say
To whom shouldst thou give it?
a displeasure against you, look you,--
If any order might be thought upon.
We thank thee, gentle Percy, for thy pains;
Nay, pray you, seek no colour for your going,
A peace above all earthly dignities,
Made up to the deed, doth push on this proceeding:
soldier's, which is ambitious, nor the lawyer's,
I am forsworn on 'mere necessity.'
but a cheveril glove to a good wit: how quickly the
And Cassio high in oath; which till to-night
Lords o'er their lords?
So long attended thee. If thou wert honourable,
And I am Brutus, Marcus Brutus, I;
Ay, there's the point, sir.
You bade me ban, and will you bid me leave?
Poor boy! he smiles, methinks, as who should say,
To unloose this tied-up justice when you pleased:
What art thou there? speak.
Should know we were afoot.
Except my mistress.
Save thee, friend, and thy music: dost thou live by
Now put your shields before your hearts, and fight
Engenders the black toad and adder blue,
Of marching to Philippi presently?
ANTIPHOLUS
In such a night
If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for
as far from jealousy as I am from giving him cause;
All things in common nature should produce
Nor with such free and friendly conference,
But three days longer, on the pain of death.
My fairy lord, this must be done with haste,
the lewdly-inclined. I'll bring home some to-night.
Who deem'd our marriage lawful: wherefore I humbly
Here lies our way.
O, whither?
he added to your having; gave you some ground.
This would have seem'd a period
So well as Brutus living; but will follow
what shame else belongs to't. To him will I present
Have empty left their orbs, and shot their fires
To equal my great fortune.
To do observance to a morn of May,
But wherefore art not in thy shop today?
What must I say?
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch,
So will I turn her virtue into pitch,
To counterfeit oppression of such grief
To scarlet indignation and bedew
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
And she speaks for you stoutly: the Moor replies,
By the Lord, a buck-basket! rammed me in with foul
But one to dance with! By heaven, I'll steal away.
By foul play, as thou say'st, were we heaved thence,
Albeit I will confess thy father's wealth
It is enacted in the laws of Venice,
And there lacks work; anon he's there afoot,
Then were they chosen: in a better hour,
Five hundred poor I have in yearly pay,
He is justly served;
[To BONA]  And, gracious madam, in our king's behalf,
it among the whitsters in Datchet-mead, and there
O, 'tis treason!
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me,
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
and unbuttoning thee after supper and sleeping upon
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
Many and hearty thankings to you both.
I draw the sword myself: take it, and hit
To have her love, provided that your fortune
That love which virtue begs and virtue grants.
Fauste, precor gelida quando pecus omne sub umbra
A fustian riddle!
Return, return, and make thy love amends.
Besides yourself, to like of. But I prattle
hath given it his whore.
'Twas not your valour, Clifford, drove me thence.
O, a pit of clay for to be made
to put off; but he hath conjured me beyond them, and
The gods themselves throw incense. Have I caught thee?
I think the duke will not be spoke withal.
Feed not thy sovereign's foe, my gentle earth,
We shall all be shent. Run in here, good young man;
I'll be hang'd then.
take the wall of any man or maid of Montague's.
He sheweth him a paper
Now, good master doctor!
For being yare about him.
How now! what's the matter?
Thus Eleanor's pride dies in her youngest days.
And for me,
He, but a duke, would have his son a king,
Shylock, do you hear?
Where should he find it purer than in Blanch?
And bid thee battle, Edward, if thou darest.
If the sea's stomach be o'ercharged with gold,
him partake in the glory of the action: and not
Sola, sola! wo ha, ho! sola, sola!
That means to be of note, begins betimes.
[Unmasking]  I answer to that name. What is your will?
if I be drunk, I'll be drunk with those that have
Is not this true?
Were not you even now with the Countess Olivia?
me his natural brother: therefore use thy
Neither, my lord.
Tempests themselves, high seas, and howling winds,
Good morrow to you both.
to Brutus', to Cassius'; burn all: some to Decius'
Faith, stay here this night; they will surely do us
Pace 'em not in their hands to make 'em gentle,
Writes me: 'That man, how dearly ever parted,
I must shortly hear from him, or I will subscribe
'Me, an't shall please you; I am Anthony Dull.
No, yonder 'tis;
And make a clear way to the gods.
And to the latest gasp cried out for Warwick,
Yet I'll move him
study three years in two words, the dancing horse
Shall yield them little, tell the constable.
Yourself, sweet lady; for you gave the fire. Sir
Took their discharge.
His noble nephew here in virtue's nest,
his flesh: what's that good for?
Exit
This tiger-footed rage, when it shall find
As if with Circe she would change my shape!
Have thou the ordering of this present time.
Tell me wherein have I offended most?
Let her not strike me. You perhaps may think,
To him that ever fears he shall be poor.
Even as the axe falls, if I be not faithful!
myself acquainted with you. I shall discover a
hear your son was run away.
Exit
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH, and SIR ANDREW
Henceforth my wooing mind shall be express'd
That I must love a loathed enemy.
Are you in earnest, sir?
Ay, by my faith, that bears a frosty sound.
Come on, Panthino: you shall be employ'd
Of trotting 'paritors:--O my little heart:--
She shall not need; we'll meet her in the field.
And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll sup with me?
The tidings come that they are all arrived.
Have I not tarried?
day find it.
Of the whole body. The belly answer'd--
Do give thee five-fold blazon: not too fast:
If it were so, it was a grievous fault,
Who neither looks upon the heaven nor earth,
To you I speak.
Exit IAGO
As my thoughts aim not at. Cassio's my worthy friend--
I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.
Doubt not
Stir with the lark to-morrow, gentle Norfolk.
Be angry when you will, it shall have scope;
A deed of dreadful note.
And his advantage following your decease,
speak in a monstrous little voice. 'Thisne,
With sighs shot through, and biggest tears
My sword, I say! Old Montague is come,
Had you first died, and he been thus trod down,
me a piece of marchpane; and, as thou lovest me, let
Name him.
four of his blind brothers and sisters went to it.
I see, as in a map, the end of all.
Do you think I am so far deceived in him?
The fire that mounts the liquor til run o'er,
To know what willing ransom he will give.
This night intends to steal away your daughter:
Exit Clown
Nay, nothing; all is said
This fellow here, with envious carping tongue,
[To PAGE]  And this is true; I like not the humour
Hath he never heretofore sounded you in this business?
Without observance or respect of any,
SCENE II. Entrance of the Volscian camp before Rome.
Re-enter FERDINAND, BIRON, LONGAVILLE, and DUMAIN, in their proper habits
And fall upon the ground, as I do now,
Ill will never said well.
O, fie upon them! Some such squire he was
Alas, your too much love and care of me
My master is awaked by great occasion
That blabb'd them with such pleasing eloquence,
Here, most gracious liege.
Than to be used as you use your dog?
A pantler, not so eminent.
Where noble fellows strike: war is no strife
You do ill to teach the child such words: he
That wore the imperial diadem of Rome;
and yet am ready to famish! These five days have I
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
Have I sought every country far and near,
O my fair warrior!
Farewell, my coz.
Will shake this island.
craft, being richer than innocency, stands for the facing.
How now, brother Edmund! what serious
The beggar native honour.
There would be hands uplifted in my right;
Ere I can tell thee what thou shouldst do there.
prouder than the cur Achilles, and will not arm
Is it the king?
All scatter'd in the bottom of the sea:
an into their estimation and report: but he hath so
That which I durst not speak; his present gift
Romeo, that she were, O, that she were
[Aside]  I had forgot that foul conspiracy
And I denied to enter in my house?
That covenants may be kept on either hand.
Hark ye, your Romeo will be here at night:
And what says she to my little jewel?
Plot some deuce of further misery,
And she is mine, and all my right of her
Unto the climate that they point upon.
I found it in my chamber:
What man thou art.
I cannot tell vat is dat.
the rest of their company from their sport, to make
die all slaves, than that Caesar were dead, to live
SCENE II. A Street.
For in the fatness of these pursy times
philosopher when he grows old, being so full of
They that reap must sheaf and bind;
Exeunt
man. What a woman are you!--Away with him, away
Thrice-blessed they that master so their blood,
I thank my noble lord. Wilt thou be pleased to
Beats TRINCULO
Thou mayst, thou shalt; I will not go with thee:
head worth a hat, or his chin worth a beard?
A crown for York! and, lords, bow low to him:
the whole wealth of thy wit in an instant? I pray
Die, perish! Might but my bending down
Than death prorogued, wanting of thy love.
God, sir, and he hath enough.
Or rather a disease that's in my flesh,
Being now awake, I'll queen it no inch farther,
of eating and drinking.
For had I cursed now, I had cursed myself.
Did ever so long live; no sorrow
discourse, of great admittance, authentic in your
I have: but what of him?
Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! spout, rain!
Your worship was the last man in our mouths.
This casket threatens. Men that hazard all
suffer this rude knave now to knock him about the
him.
'Twas odds, belike, when valiant Warwick fled:
Why, how couldst thou know these men in Kendal
The universal landlord.
For she did speak in starts distractedly.
But at this hour the house doth keep itself;
Shook as the earth did quake;
the Count Claudio alone: tell them that you know
In such an honour: how may I deserve it
Out-sweeten'd not thy breath: the ruddock would,
Come you, my lord, to see my open shame?
whipping, and hanging.
Maintain'd the change of words with any creature,
Saint Alban's battle won by famous York
Here comes the herald of the French, my liege.
Exit
My lord, it were your duty to forbear.
So be there 'twixt your kingdoms such a spousal,
SCENE I. The plains of Philippi.
O, you are a flattering boy: now I see you'll be a courtier.
What is the issue of the business there.
Is gone to meet the king, who lately landed
for; and there is a kind of confession in your looks
Are every one a woe, a sore complaint
Will I not think of home, but follow arms.
Above the moon: we must be burnt for you.
In moral fury half so peremptory,
A reason mighty, strong, and effectual;
I may truly say, it is a novelty to the world.
Ay, my lord: and fear
Where wert thou born?
Exeunt
Exit CASSIO
Have you perused the letters from the pope,
Flourish of cornets. Enter PORTIA, with the PRINCE OF MOROCCO, and their trains
He dies for Claudio's death.
What is that noise?
For he that interrupts him shall not live.
I do not so secure me in the error,
out of all reasonable match. If thou beest not
to ask you if gold will corrupt him to revolt.
To see the life as lively mock'd as ever
'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and
He was perfumed like a milliner;
interpreter, you must seem very politic. But couch,
This and much more, much more than twice all this,
As bid me tell my tale in express words,
Which so roused up with boisterous untuned drums,
To the yet unbegotten sin of times;
Now the pledge; now, now, now!
chez les narines de feu! When I bestride him, I
Bear them from hence. Our present business
Proclaim our honours, lords, with trump and drum.
More than thou hast, and with it joy thy life;
And, after John of Gaunt, Henry the Fourth,
If Talbot do but thunder, rain will follow.
To-night, say I.
O, bind him, bind him! let him not come near me.
With this field-dew consecrate,
news too: Marullus and Flavius, for pulling scarfs
doubt not but I shall find them tractable enough.
Digging
During their use, and slay us after.
John. Unless you go out disguised--
What, have his daughters brought him to this pass?
In the affliction of these terrible dreams
maids are May when they are maids, but the sky
Say, what thing? what thing?
The sun of Rome is set! Our day is gone;
A thousand flatterers sit within thy crown,
I see them now; then was a blessed time.
Once more we sit in England's royal throne,
Exit
Thus have I, Wall, my part discharged so;
Than stamps in gold or sums in sealed bags;
Enter FLUELLEN
Are we all ready? What is now amiss
as I command you.
Yes, if you will, my lord.
Their money out of hope they may believe,
the very description of their meeting-place; and
Alas, I sent you money to redeem you,
Run after that same peevish messenger,
given him notice that the Duke of Cornwall and Regan
that cry out on the top of question, and are most
Aside
Amen, if you love her; for the lady is very well worthy.
No, good Master Fenton.
Think but upon the wrong he did us all,
Lucy, farewell; no more my fortune can,
To whom being going, almost spent with hunger,
There would have been a time for such a word.
Perchance I will be there as soon as you.
Charles, I will play no more tonight;
Methinks I feel this youth's perfections
o' the toe like a parish-top. What, wench!
Were he my kinsman, brother, or my son,
For here we need it not.
If they set down before 's, for the remove
bargains, cooled my friends, heated mine
My lord, I do not know;
And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we miss;
Sir, be patient:
Brief, he must hence depart to Tyre:
And, to begin, wench,--so God help me, la!--
it, it transmigrates.
With such discourse as, I not doubt, shall make it
Exit
As thou dost swallow up this good king's blood
stuck in ears: you might have pinched a placket, it
'em, I think, surely.
cries out 'No more;' reconciles them to his
That is some satire, keen and critical,
What's the news?
boy. Now bless thyself: thou mettest with things
Pucelle is enter'd into Orleans,
Enter a third Servant
And Silvia--witness Heaven, that made her fair!--
We shall be call'd purgers, not murderers.
You bid me seek redemption of the devil:
I gave him no order; I gave him the stuff.
What! can so young a thorn begin to prick?
Why the King of France is so suddenly gone back
stubborn outside, with an aspect of iron, that, when
And pray that I may repossess the crown.
As man and wife, being two, are one in love,
On whom these airs attend! Vouchsafe my prayer
ears grew to his tunes.
When I shall tread upon the tyrant's head,
Enter LAUNCE, with his his Dog
Say, if thou darest, proud Lord of Warwick-shire,
Bids't thou me rage? why, now thou hast thy wish:
My will to her consent is but a part;
call ladies.
we'll have a speech straight: come, give us a taste
Here's no man.
Impose some service on me for thy love.
Follows singing
Why, sir, I pray, are not the streets as free
What answer makes your grace to the rebels'
And, for our father's sake and mother's care,
against the law of arms: 'tis as arrant a piece of
Shall see advantageable for our dignity,
Meaning to keep her closely at my cell,
Show thy descent by gazing 'gainst the sun:
As much as may be yielded to a man:
Which my love makes religion to obey,
If Richard will be true, not that alone
That made the overture of thy treasons to us;
Honest plain words best pierce the ear of grief;
complain of? Come me to what was done to her.
But what thou art besides, thou wert too base
Lusty and like to live: the queen receives
Didst thou not lead him through the glimmering night
A handkerchief; which, say to her, did drain
As in good time he may, from Ireland coming,
How, I pray you?
Fly o'er them, all impatient for their hour.
Come hither, mistress. Is your name Goneril?
The exchange of thy love's faithful vow for mine.
What advocate hast thou to him?
Farewell, sweet lords: let's meet at Coventry.
Or here I'll cease.
If ever I live to see it, I will challenge it.
To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts,
Will you sup with me to-night, Casca?
Go tell their general we attend him here,
And thus far having stretch'd it--here be with them--
Ah, thou shalt find us ready for thee still;
forbid I should be so bold to press to heaven in my
it would have run all out.
Why, so I do, the noblest that I have:
That it is place which lessens and sets off;
I should lament thy miserable state.
Thou wilt revolt, and fly to him, I fear.
flown, bird! i' the clout, i' the clout: hewgh!
Go to, I know you well enough.
Exeunt ACHILLES, HECTOR, AJAX, and NESTOR
I'll bring the body presently.
Spoke like a tail fellow that respects his
Being thus be-netted round with villanies,--
Thus time we waste, and longest leagues make short;
Soft! who are you? Sir Walter Blunt: there's honour
leg,--to what form but that he is, should wit larded
To you and toward your friend, whose love had spoke,
Each one with ireful passion, with drawn swords,
another trick, never come in my sight more.
me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow
Would become tender.
Past question; for thou seest it will not curl by nature.
Traduced by odious ballads: my maiden's name
Well, we will leave you then till dinner-time:
He'll fright you up, i' faith. Will it not be?
SCENE V. Inverness. Macbeth's castle.
Tell him, myself, the mayor and citizens,
Haply been absent then.
I am Saint Jaques' pilgrim, thither gone:
Have travail'd in the great shower of your gifts,
Now, by Apollo, king,
To glow the delicate cheeks which they did cool,
Do so, King Philip; hang no more in doubt.
Yes, presently:
Thou slander of thy mother's heavy womb!
Good night to every one.
And will not palter? and what other oath
Decline to your confounding contraries,
O Goneril!
Prague, that never saw pen and ink, very wittily
Were strangely clamorous to the frighted fields.
Pox on't, I'll not meddle with him.
Do not say so.
[Reads]  'Wonder not, nor admire not in thy mind,
What, shall I find you here?
All must be even in our government.
They call'd us for our fierceness English dogs;
In graces and in qualities of breeding;
And 'tis the very riches of thyself
When he would play the noble beast in love.
Enter, from thence, LYSIMACHUS and Lords; with the Gentlemen and the two Sailors
late stood out against your brother, and he hath
As boldness from my bosom, let 't not be doubted
And sent to warn them to his royal presence.
friar's mouth, nay, as the pudding to his skin.
the hobby-horse is forgot.'
Some Cupid kills with arrows, some with traps.
And maidens bleach their summer smocks
Beseeching God and you to pardon me.
than the poor thing is here. I'll take it up for
As if it fed ye! and how sleek and wanton
I put myself to thy direction, and
More mild, but yet more harmful, kind in hatred:
What lay before them.
If there be more, more woeful, hold it in;
Dishonour not her honourable name,
Where I may have fruition of her love.
What mean these masterless and gory swords
thou silly gentleman!
In celebration of this day with shows,
musty room, comes me the prince and Claudio, hand
But undergo this flight, make for Sicilia,
That draw his knives i' the war. Well, I will find him
Receive him,
Rest thy unrest on England's lawful earth,
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
After your way his tale pronounced shall bury
Her vine, the merry cheerer of the heart,
Surprise me to the very brink of tears:
parties were met themselves, one of them thought but
More longing, wavering, sooner lost and worn,
Good Catesby, go, effect this business soundly.
And say there is no sin but to be rich;
Although, my lord, I know my noble aunt
Enter the KING, SALISBURY, WARWICK, to the CARDINAL in bed
You have sworn patience.
And renowned be thy grave!
way; old Windsor way, and every way but the town
And call it cunning: do, an if you will:
That I may strike at Athens. I'll cheer up
Do what they would; are sorry--you are honourable,--
Mine would, sir, were I human.
On my free will. My lord, Mark Antony,
I would be all, against the worst may happen.
By some discretion, that discerns your state
A goodly person: he hath lost his fellows
Dear general, I never gave you cause.
First tried our soldiership! He did look far
O villain, thou stolest a cup of sack eighteen years
Sound all the lofty instruments of war,
Enter LORENZO and JESSICA
Sea-nymphs hourly ring his knell
And, as the sleeping soldiers in the alarm,
Close up his eyes and draw the curtain close;
BERTRAM.
Enter the PRINCE and Attendants
A hell-hound that doth hunt us all to death:
Quite over-canopied with luscious woodbine,
So sovereignly being honourable.
Inform on that.
I can, my liege.
O heaven, that such companions thou'ldst unfold,
And I do think she's thirty.
I never heard any soldier dislike it.
No; but she is an earthly paragon.
And death approach not ere my tale be done.
O, pardon, that I name them! Your high self,
All things that you should use to do me wrong
SCENE I. Rochester. An inn yard.
So, good night unto you all.
Nor can there be that deity in my nature,
Right son to the right Vincentio;
I forgive him.
That doth my life besiege. Farewell, young lords;
Let me go grind their bones to powder small
The rate of usance here with us in Venice.
Look ye yonder, niece; is't not a gallant man too,
I know it well, sir; you always end ere you begin.
Pursuit would be but vain.
As well might poison poison! Be revenged;
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon,
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
Father of Warwick, know you what this means?
An amber-colour'd raven was well noted.
They have sent me such a man I would have wish'd for.
Say then, who dost thou mean shall be her king?
too: we shall speak of you there.
Should perish by the sword! And I myself,
Therefore I say with noble Buckingham,
And kiss thy fair large ears, my gentle joy.
Which I protest against--I am assisted
And draw their honours reeking up to heaven;
Why, noble lords,
But will you, then?
But what serve for the thunder?--Precious villain!
Exit
Exit
Where false Plantagenet dare not be seen.
Study is like the heaven's glorious sun
Hail, king! for so thou art: behold, where stands
Outran my purpose; and I return'd the rather
I fear it, I promise you.
Here comes the prince and Claudio hastily.
Brought hither Henry Hereford thy bold son,
Royal Lear,
But since you come too late of our intents,
Yes, sir.
Didst yield consent to disinherit him,
However faulty, yet should find respect
But stay, here come the gardeners:
So I hear.
He that rides at high speed and with his pistol
Till supper-time alone: while then, God be with you!
SCENE IV. HERO's apartment.
A lean cheek, which you have not, a blue eye and
Faith, not me.
Heaven shield my mother play'd my father fair!
Or die renowned by attempting it.
much more, much worse.
And find delight writ there with beauty's pen;
Enter SIR NATHANIEL, for Alexander
Am I not an inch of fortune better than she?
Captain Alcibiades, your heart's in the field now.
I would love you, if I could. To-morrow meet me all together.
conqueror; and it would do well to set the deer's
Or so devote to Aristotle's cheques
Shed on the earth, for thy return to Rome:
But one that scorn to live in this disguise,
Be rush'd upon! Thy thrice noble cousin
As if I did but only chew his name;
Here comes the queen, whose looks bewray her anger:
To dive like buckets in concealed wells,
That holds his honour higher than his ease,
And where's your lesson, then? Boy, what say you?
O, spare me not, my brother Edward's son,
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane,
Preys on the issue of his mother's body,
I know young bloods look for a time of rest.
Her eyes are grey as glass, and so are mine:
The pox of such antic, lisping, affecting
He's not prepared for death. Even for our kitchens
I will lay you ten thousand ducats to your ring,
Most noble sir,
Let's do it after the high Roman fashion,
Enter POLIXENES and CAMILLO
And thankfully rest debtor for the first.
hand, de fingres, et de nails.
But yet a woman: and for secrecy,
open all our proceedings. O, I could divide myself
The power of Caesar, and
There's Dolabella sent from Caesar; call him.
Here comes my man; I think he brings the money.
If it conceived a male child by me, should
Obey, and go with me; for thou must die.
Peace, fool! I have not done.
And whet on Warwick to this enterprise.
This is thy work: the object poisons sight;
Come.
And whisper one another in the ear;
Draw near, Queen Margaret, and be a witness
MARIANA veiled, ISABELLA, and FRIAR PETER, at their  stand. Enter DUKE VINCENTIO, VARRIUS, Lords,  ANGELO, ESCALUS, LUCIO, Provost, Officers, and Citizens, at several doors
No, but brown.
That do outface it with their semblances.
As if we kept a fair here! Where are these porters,
The clerk of Chatham: he can write and read and
'Faith, for their poverty, I know not where they had
And overlook their grafters?
O royal Caesar!
One of these two must be necessities,
ACT II
Good gentlemen, look fresh and merrily;
In which array, brave soldier, doth he lie,
the Park: I pray you, pardon me; I will hereafter
You hold a fair assembly; you do well, lord:
Hear not my steps, which way they walk, for fear
Thou hast painfully discover'd: are his files
Can alter a decree established:
Though you and all the kings of Christendom
Nay, but, Beatrice,--
'Tis hot, it smokes;
Must I bite?
Exeunt
SCENE VII. Before York.
Then his good report should have been my son; I
Sir, he made a chimney in my father's house, and
Needs not the painted flourish of your praise:
manhood, what an arrant, rascally, beggarly, lousy
neither to his father nor to me, to go about to make
you call in question the continuance of his love:
Than thee, all noble Marcius. Let me twine
Thou that wast seal'd in thy nativity
The execution of my big-swoln heart
Burthen Bow-wow
Are dearer than the natural bond of sisters.
Than you to punish.
That has to-day escaped. I thank you all;
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, and Attendants
Exit
The king himself; who, Douglas, grieves at heart
Hence ever then my heart is in thy breast.
We know the time since he was mild and affable,
it should take joy
Enter PERICLES, wet
We sweat and bleed: the friend hath lost his friend;
And joy that thou becomest King Henry's friend.
And yours of Helena to me bequeath,
A deep repentance: nothing in his life
And am most sensible in grief for it,
My gracious lord, here is the bag of gold.
Whoever gave it you. Then, if you know
It came even from the heart of--O, she's dead!
O child! O child! my soul, and not my child!
Scarcely have coveted what was mine own,
Can have no note, unless the sun were post--
I mean it not; I seek you a better husband.
Yes.
Shall not be sent: my hand will serve the turn:
And, spite of all the rapture of the sea,
I'll see it done.
For in revenge of my contempt of love,
In honour follows Coriolanus.
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd,
that should desire you to touch him, for his biting
Which I made known to Lucius, ere the stroke
No, I'll none of you.
As ever oak or stone was sound.
So hath your highness; never king of England
revel and applause, transform ourselves into beasts!
To cool this heat, a charm to calm these fits.
To know our further pleasure in this case,
Why, how dost thou, man? what is the matter with thee?
Which waits upon worn times hath something seized
His head by nature framed to wear a crown,
To save your subjects from such massacre
He is a craven and a villain else, an't please your
Than hate for Silvia that is gone for love.
That made you break this enterprise to me?
Once stir my temper; but this virtuous maid
I dare, and do defy thee for a villain.
He words me, girls, he words me, that I should not
To play with mammets and to tilt with lips:
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
what she has to do, that she may not be raw in her
Thy tempest-tossed body. How now, wife!
No, I serve not thy master.
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE and POLONIUS
Was he angry?
But long I will not be Jack out of office:
I' faith, I'll eat nothing; I thank you as much as
That any accent breaking from thy tongue
Ay, ay; I must bear it.
in whose name myself
Wherefore, gentle maiden,
lord of Gloucester.
His love, too long ago! I am old, my lords,
In kissing, do you render or receive?
Enter KING JOHN, CARDINAL PANDULPH, and Attendants
If I say sooth, I must report they were
Sweet York, sweet husband, be not of that mind:
The other moiety, ere you ask, is given;
Enter a fourth Gentleman
like my lady's eldest son, evermore tattling.
Ay,
I say she's dead; I'll swear't. If word nor oath
In that's no changeling; and I must excuse
Between the acting of a dreadful thing
No, never such an oath; nor will not now.
Ye are too bold:
To know the reason of these arms in peace;
Atone together.
Amen!
And Cassio kill'd!
Fair maid, send forth thine eye: this youthful parcel
This is of purpose laid by some that hate me--
Despise me, when I break this oath of mine.
And, look, what notes and garments he doth give thee,
Thou shalt be both the plaintiff and the judge
Nor once be chastised with the sober eye
Out of his self-drawing web, he gives us note,
Did I, Bardolph?
Wish him ten fathom deep: this duke as much
defend all these: and at all these wards I lie, at a
What other pleasure can the world afford?
'Liberty, freedom, and enfranchisement!'
In the Rialto you have rated me
You got it from her: she call'd the saints to surety
To slay the innocent? What is my offence?
What, is he fled? Go some, and follow him;
determinations; which is, indeed, to return to their
Adieu. I love not the humour of bread and cheese,
You shall hear more ere morning.
'Tis the infirmity of his age: yet he hath ever
Biron they call him; but a merrier man,
Through brazen trumpet send the breath of parley
What, while you were there?
Even with the stroke and line of his great justice:
Most willing, madam.
That never touch well welcome to thy hand,
Will you go on? I pray.
must comfort you, men must feed you, men must stir
That shall be swallow'd in this controversy.
Ay, for if Edward repossess the crown,
Before we met or that a stroke was given,
Then my account I well may, give,
out more apparel than the man. But art not thou
have of late knocked too often at my door. I find
That I may know the let, why gentle Peace
Though he hath fallen by prompture of the blood,
Turning with splendor of his precious eye
And why dost thou deny the bag of gold?
carelessly,
Give me your hand, Orlando. What do you say, sister?
Then hast thou taught Hortensio to be untoward.
How do I thank thee, that this carnal cur
That here by mountaineers lies slain. Alas!
Only, this one: Lord Angelo is precise;
Your letter is with Jupiter by this.
To what purpose have you unfolded this to me?
A plum-tree, master.
Modo he's call'd, and Mahu.
A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops
And so break off; the day is almost spent:
I do well believe your highness; and
I do beseech you, good my lords, keep on;
From Ravenspurgh to Cotswold will be found
Their proud contempt that beats His peace to heaven.
Than what I fear; for always I am Caesar.
I'll call for pen and ink, and write my mind.
Enter two or three Gentlemen
promise him an excellent piece.
I pray thee, mark me--that a brother should
Clean over-blown, themselves, the conquerors.
When Clifford cannot spare his friends an oath.
Re-enter Boatswain
Look to the lady.
One drop of Christian blood, thy lands and goods
Armed in proof, and led by shallow Richmond.
My hands are of your colour; but I shame
My lord, he fears you mean no good to him.
Sure, my noble lord,
Rome, be as just and gracious unto me
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
The closing up of our most wretched eyes;
[Within]  Who's there that knocks so imperiously?
O Dardanius!
I would thou grew'st unto the shores o' the haven,
With nought but truth. I have wasted myself out of
Pleased fortune does of Marcus Crassus' death
Of English Henry, shall this night appear
The noise is round about us.
ANTIPHOLUS
With which she follow'd my poor father's body,
'O no, no, no, no, you dare not.'
Who have we here? Rome's royal empress,
I shall forget, to have thee still stand there,
Exeunt
What is here?
If you be pleased, retire into my cell
prayer, for here he comes in the likeness of a Jew.
Or some of you shall smoke for it in Rome.
Or sack this country with a mutiny.
great traveller, and wild Half-can that stabbed
makes very ill-favouredly.
Ay me, I can no more! die, Margaret!
That it engluts and swallows other sorrows
Where is he now?
Or hailstone in the sun. Your virtue is
bold as to tell you I know the disciplines of war;
Make blind itself with foolish tenderness.
pleasure: if your love do not persuade you to come,
For though my soul disputes well with my sense,
Lord Timon's mad.
Till I again see mine.
Carry them here and there; jumping o'er times,
And when you are desirous to be bless'd,
That struck the foremost man of all this world
I can build up. Strange is it that our bloods,
With urging helpless patience wouldst relieve me,
Than is a slave in base servility;
Enwheel thee round!
mother shall bring from him: there is no more mercy
--give, when she is able to overtake seventeen years
And with dishonour laid me on the ground;
Did that they did in envy of great Caesar;
He was the first that ever bore arms.
The death of each day's life, sore labour's bath,
her recompense: and here, by this, is your brother
'E la mi,' show pity, or I die.'
What, is this so?
You tallow-face!
my sword upon a stone and bid him take that for
True; and a goose for his discretion.
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
Of threescore and two years; a silly time
time that ever I heard breaking of ribs was sport
Let me be cruel, not unnatural:
shall be with her between ten and eleven; for at
born in an hour: if the heavens had been pleased,
Exeunt all but IAGO and CASSIO
Give me thy hand: I am sorry I beat thee; but,
Enter GONERIL, and OSWALD, her steward
By Roderigo.
To fortune's alms.
And cook to honest creatures: but 'tis not so;
Now fear is from me, I'll speak troth. Lord Cloten,
SCENE II. A public place.
dead that was willing to be so: I shall do my
leave your courtesy, good mounsieur.
I will no further offend you than becomes me for my good.
If his own life answer the straitness of his
pursue him with any further revenge?
Thou dost advise me
I will, when you are humble; nay, before,
No, no; no man saw 'em.
Exit
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence;
And his soft couch defile.
To have no man come over me! why, shall I always
Who? that Petruchio came?
us! it is a world to see. Well said, i' faith,
I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who's there?
Even so must I run on, and even so stop.
That we have tried the utmost of our friends,
Directly interest: mark what Jacob did.
has neither leg, hands, lip, nor cap; and indeed
Perhaps she cull'd it from among the rest.
can hardly make distinction of our hands.
if not, I would it were.
Shall make thy peace for moving me to rage;
To hear the replication of your sounds
getting wenches with child, wronging the ancientry,
'Zounds, I bleed still; I am hurt to the death.
we bring him to our own tents. Be but your lordship
'Fore your own eyes and ears?
My banquet is to close our stomachs up,
He did love her, sir, as a gentleman loves a woman.
That he did buffet thee, and, in his blows,
or I'll none; virtuous, or I'll never cheapen her;
you?
So, now dismiss your army when ye please:
Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and me;
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
That this may be some error, but no madness,
Come, lady, die to live: this wedding-day
We had the tune on't a month ago.
O, ransom, ransom! do not hide mine eyes.
After the Beadle hath hit him once, he leaps over the stool and runs away; and they follow and cry, 'A miracle!'
COUNTESS
The great'st grace lending grace
'Fore God, they have given me a rouse already.
Is shiny; and they say we shall embattle
Exeunt, with a dead march
Is she your cousin?
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS QUICKLY, and WILLIAM PAGE
Cousin, farewell; and, uncle, bid him so:
Of prison gates;
King Henry the Fifth, too famous to live long!
Weeps she still, say'st thou? Dost thou think in time
out: wind me into him, I pray you: frame the
You, sirrah, that knew me for a fool, a coward,
This I'll do for you.
They shall, Nerissa; but in such a habit,
I think
Hark, Petruchio; she says she'll see thee
For every word you speak in his behalf
Please it our general to pass strangely by him,
O momentary grace of mortal men,
Thou say'st his meat was sauced with thy upbraidings:
deal with poison; I will possess him with
we are married, that we may lighten our own hearts
Thou mightst as well say I love to walk by the
That ever I should call thee castaway!
And you have slander'd nature in my form,
sometimes to see 'em, and not to see 'em; now the
You can say none of this: well, grant it then
You know I am a woman, lacking wit
And, in faith, my lord, I spoke mine.
To be his groom: thou wert dignified enough,
And all the pleasures you usurp are mine.
Those that we bury back, our monuments
But from the inward motion to deliver
Look thou be true; do not give dalliance
That with his very heart despiseth me?
I shall not break your bidding, good my lord.
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
Methought you saw a serpent: what's in 'mother,'
My tailor made them not.
Here is a path to't: 'tis some savage hold:
Well, let my deeds be witness of my worth.
conclusion is victory: on whose side? the king's.
an end of him; for my soul, yet I know not why,
That he did range the town to seek me out.
The rites for which I love him are bereft me,
Exit SERVILIUS
To THYREUS
been into Thames, ere I will leave her thus. Her
But are you not ashamed? nay, are you not,
Enter a Soldier, running
bodily part of your mistress, my ten thousand ducats
Good sir, no more; these are unsightly tricks:
And like a scurvy politician, seem
And brother Clarence, and you, brother Gloucester,
I' faith, I thank him; he hath bid me to a calf's
their cassocks, lest they shake themselves to pieces.
you. Your name, honest gentleman?
Your preparation can affront no less
But it was famed with more than with one man?
For they account his head upon the bridge.
'A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.'
Within a quarter of an hour.
as I said, there is no moe such Caesars: other of
Authority melts from me: of late, when I cried 'Ho!'
Enter Clown
enforce them against him: we shall find this friar a
Of this great sport together, as you guess?
Quake in the present winter's state and wish
To equal him, I will make myself a knight presently.
The town might fall in fright: he, swift of foot,
Be they of much import?
so; if not, let him enter: if I become not a cart
How goes our reckoning?
I am supposed dead: the army breaking,
I here discard my sickness! Soul of Rome!
If thine consider'd prove the thousandth part
therefore you must needs play Pyramus.
I must love you, and sue to know you better.
there rooted betwixt them then such an affection,
In the vile prison of afflicted breath.
Enter MACMORRIS and Captain JAMY
No sooner had they told this hellish tale,
In asking their good loves, but thou wilt frame
To rank our chosen truth with such a show
Certainly, aunchient, it is not a thing to rejoice
If I live to see it, I will never trust his word after.
Our daughters' several dowers, that future strife
Is this true, Nerissa?
Exit
It's monstrous labour, when I wash my brain,
That died by law for murder of our brother,
natural for our whetstone; for always the dulness of
Ay, madam, you may say what sights you see;
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away,
Thou, Julia, thou hast metamorphosed me,
I say, at once let your brief plagues be mercy,
Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence?'
I know she is not, for this match made up
letter! Abhorred villain! Unnatural, detested,
And not seek a queen to make him rich:
That gnaws the bowels of the commonwealth.
That can entame my spirits to your worship.
Choose Caesar for their king.
Or worthily, as a good subject should,
where, if thou fear to strike and to make me certain
But is all this for your father?
A! that's a foul fault.
What mightst thou do, that honour would thee do,
I would into thy bosom pour my thoughts:
Commend me to thy lady.
Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you:
Of these most strange events:
Did break i' the rinsing.
Yet have I ventured to come seek you out,
To deck thy body with his ruffling treasure.
Had he a hand to write this? a heart and brain
Join with the present sickness that I have;
Pompey the Great; and Suffolk dies by pirates.
SCENE I. London. A street leading to the Tower.
Who's born that day
Then by your side no bed-room me deny;
you: I must discontinue your company: your brother
Foh, foh! come, tell a pin: you are forsworn.
My lord the king, the king!
I have sworn to do it;
Will answer our hope in issue of a king;
Follow my voice: we'll try no manhood here.
Than but once think this place becomes thee not.
Quite out of fashion, like a rusty mail
With promise of his sister, and what else,
The wandering prince and Dido once enjoy'd,
My father, being the Earl of Warwick's man,
And loses that it works for.
Lest parties, as he is beloved, break out,
Among the infinite doings of the world,
No, my good lord; I met him back again.
Your name, fair gentlewoman?
shall never requite him.
And list what with our council we have done.
Of here and every where. I had a sister,
for mine own part, I durst not laugh, for fear of
That, in the official marks invested, you
For grief that they are past recovery:
For this new-married man approaching here,
I thank thee. Mariner, say what coast is this?
He will suspect us still and find a time
You snatch some hence for little faults; that's love,
That he which finds him shall deserve our thanks,
Which died in Geffrey, and the hand of time
And sleeps again. This is that very Mab
What, wilt thou hear some music,
What, is my beaver easier than it was?
Will we take throughly.
Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience
Songs and Sonnets here.
Will you deny me now?
By the rebound of yours, a grief that smites
I see some sparks of better hope, which elder years
Joy to you, Mariana! Love her, Angelo:
I thank them; and would send them back the plague,
In countenance somewhat doth resemble you.
All that good time will give us: this attempt
behavior every where.
Exit LUCIUS
Resolve on this, thou shalt be fortunate,
Hail sir!
In most profound earnest; and, I'll warrant you, for
It was a lover and his lass,
May make some stronger head; the which he hearing--
To give some labourers room.
Apemantus, if it lay in thy power?
Dauphin, I am by birth a shepherd's daughter,
When would you use it? pray, sir, tell me that.
This you should pity rather than despise.
Who hath abused me, as he knows himself,
consent to die this day, that's certain.
sole dominator of Navarre, my soul's earth's god,
Your children's children quit it in your age.
Whose children he hath slain, their base throats tear
hath had three suits to his back, six shirts to his
Which for this nineteen years we have let slip;
The icy precepts of respect, but follow'd
Why, sir, what's your conceit in that?
every lane's end, every shop, church, session,
thy face: and all this done, spurn her home to her
For all the frosty nights that I have watch'd;
side her, the Bishops of London and
Beg often our own harms, which the wise powers
Till he behold them form'd in the applause
New widows howl, new orphans cry, new sorrows
Hath the fellow any wit that told you this?
Shall be their father's bail; and bane to those
Makes him oppose himself against his king.
After our sentence plaining comes too late.
What with him? he comes not
taught to find me? The search, sir, was profitable;
And he's as tetchy to be woo'd to woo.
It fails not yet, but flourishes in thee
Ready to fight; therefore be resolute.
What is the matter? How now, general!
If, till the expiration of your month,
And he, good prince, having all lost,
Thou comest to use thy tongue; thy story quickly.
Mark how he bears his course, and runs me up
That appertain unto a burial.
ladies' eyes;
traverse; to see thee here, to see thee there; to
Presents a letter
wish him to her father.
Did I not, fellow?
'Faith, yes, to be put to the arbitrement of swords,
These be the stops that hinder study quite
Till we perceived, both how you were wrong led,
Professes to persuade,--the king his son's alive,
SCENE I. Antechamber in LEONTES' palace.
Well, go with me and be not so discomfited:
Come hither, captain; hark.
Which to recure, we heartily solicit
And Cytherea all in sedges hid,
Why, then we rack the value, then we find
When I to feast expressly am forbid;
He must not be my brother.
Nay, 'tis no matter, sir, what he 'leges in Latin.
So is the fame.
Varro's Servant	Hang him, he'll abuse us.
Your grace hath ta'en great pains to qualify
Why, I was writing of my epitaph;
And I, most jocund, apt and willingly,
and untempering effect of my visage. Now, beshrew
Patience perforce with wilful choler meeting
This was an ill beginning of the night:
Thou and thy brother both shall buy this treason
I do beseech you, let it be his fault,
Fetch in our wood and serves in offices
Shall find but bloody safety and untrue.
He's beat from his best ward.
Thou dost not wish more help from England, coz?
Good heart, at what?
Farewell.
This is the fool that lent out money gratis:
I pray you home to dinner with me.
I thought that all things had been savage here;
Dispose of you.
Commune with you of this, but rather follow
Have buried them for prey!
Though I die for it, as no less is threatened me,
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play.
My spirits, as in a dream, are all bound up.
That could stand up his parallel;
If you were men, as men you are in show,
and our wives' heels.
Didst thou? Lord, Lord, how this world is given to
ACT IV
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and RIVERS
I pray you, uncle, give me this dagger.
Villanous whore!
Convenient is it. Make a swift return;
Re-enter DON PEDRO
Smacks it not something of the policy?
get the learned writer to set down our
Enter GLOUCESTER, brought in by two or three
Like a Colossus, and we petty men
O, that way madness lies; let me shun that;
Enter a Messenger
Say to me, when sawest thou the Prince Florizel, my
Maiden, no remedy.
When you do find him, or alive or dead,
To meet you on the way, and welcome you.
Why, Romeo, art thou mad?
Against the Duke of Hereford that appeals me
Take the fool away.
Then, by myself--
My lord Sebastian,
Exeunt
Nor, I am sure, there is no force in eyes
And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
Hail, King of Scotland!
The king will venture at it. Either the cardinal,
This is the law, and this Duke Humphrey's doom.
Of Learning, late deceased in beggary.'
By any mark of favour.
out ere he come?
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
Go bid my woman feign a sickness; say
Must give: for what? for lead? hazard for lead?
Enter GLOUCESTER, with a torch
draw sword again. Fair lady, do you think you have
How now, Dame Partlet the hen! have you inquired
What's here? the portrait of a blinking idiot,
Ay; is't not strange?
I'll set a bourn how far to be beloved.
take-a your rapier, and come after my heel to the court.
To be so pester'd with a popinjay,
If what thou speak'st speak not of remedy.
'Hic steterat,' and that Lucentio that comes
To throw a perfume on the violet,
Shall more attend upon the coming space,
Ay, ay, prithee now. By my troth, sweet lord, thou
To whom do lions cast their gentle looks?
And therefore to revenge it, shalt thou die;
When judges have been babes; great floods have flown
The service and the loyalty I owe,
Who has done this, Sir Andrew?
In nightly revels and new jollity.
Be absolute for death; either death or life
If thou spy'st any, run and bring me word;
An o'er-press'd Roman and i' the consul's view
I know him for a man divine and holy;
The kettle-drum and trumpet thus bray out
How many would the peaceful city quit,
As there comes light from heaven and words from breath,
Else, farewell Talbot, France, and England's honour.
And put a barren sceptre in my gripe,
Enter BASSANIO, LORENZO, and GRATIANO
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
Then let us take a ceremonious leave
On the sixth hour; at which time, my lord,
Hath lately married. Shall our coffers, then,
We number nothing that we spend for you:
With twenty thousand soul-confirming oaths.
Flourish of trumpets
Who finds the heifer dead and bleeding fresh
Then shall you know the wounds invisible
And wit's own grace to grace a learned fool.
when you put off that with such contempt? But to the court!
you. I told him you were sick; he takes on him to
Of him that makes it: then, if sickly ears,
Dream of success and happy victory!
To pluck the common bosom on his side,
No, not till a hot January.
To ARIEL
Before a true and lawful magistrate,
Advance our standards, set upon our foes
Fellow, give place; here is no longer stay.
Being at Antioch--
pass. An chud ha' bin zwaggered out of my life,
Or dead, give's cause to mourn his funeral,
Is made with all due diligence
And my heart too.
In levity: since which time of five years
Whom we have apprehended in the fact;
Therefore to arms! be champion of our church,
Till I have used the approved means I have,
And these few precepts in thy memory
Honest, my lord!
I am an ass, I am a woman's man and besides myself.
And yet his trespass, in our common reason--
Exeunt PROCULEIUS and Soldiers
We'll say our song the whilst. Brother, begin.
Pray now, no more: my mother,
Almost as like as eggs; women say so,
Not utter'd by base sale of chapmen's tongues:
SCENE I. Padua. A room in BAPTISTA'S house.
married and have more occasion to know one another;
Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands,
Kneels
O, be thou Dian, and let her be Kate;
When I have chased all thy foes from hence,
Sir Paris, I will make a desperate tender
Fie, sir, fie!
I will redeem all this on Percy's head
If thou be as poor for a subject as he is for a
Enter KING CLAUDIUS and LAERTES
Re-enter JULIET, above
Go, Cleomenes;
Thus ready for the way of life or death,
Stay, my lord legate: you shall first receive
Pour'st in the open ulcer of my heart
The duke, my husband and my children both,
Or seven fair branches springing from one root:
Truly, Master Holofernes, the epithets are sweetly
Ah, what a shame! ah, what a fault were this!
Choked with ambition of the meaner sort:
And your good brethren, I am much beholding;
O, let their bodies follow, my dear liege,
three, though they would serve me, could not be man
As for her Greeks and Trojans suffer'd death.
The tender love I bear your grace, my lord,
born! I knew thou wouldst be his death. O, poor
If she refuse me: and from hence I go,
But now nor Lucius nor Lavinia lives
Do cream and mantle like a standing pond,
Till all these mischiefs be return'd again
His good sword in his hand.
Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
When what's not meet, but what must be, was law,
He was most princely: ever witness for him
Have not more gift in taciturnity.
your ladyship. I have your own letter that induced
'Twas her two sons that murder'd Bassianus;
If she be furnish'd with a mind so rare,
The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars;
Why, what a ruthless thing is this in him, for the
my counterfeiting to him. Will you go?
Show scarce so gross as beetles: half way down
Believe things certain. Welcome, my friends all!
Very well.
And I'll be bid by thee.
Cropp'd are the flower-de-luces in your arms;
Thou this to hazard needs must intimate
Tranio is changed into Lucentio.
Whither I go, nor reason whereabout:
With all prerogative: hence his ambition growing--
An I may hide my face, let me play Thisby too, I'll
His words are bonds, his oaths are oracles,
then go I toward Arragon.
As cause doth minister. Go call at Flavius' house,
In spite of your heart, I think; alas, poor heart!
Enter GADSHILL
for a challenge.
seven-night; and a time too brief, too, to have all
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  I think he means to beg a
As I intend, Clifford, to thrive to-day,
The bosom of my conscience, enter'd me,
He that of greatest works is finisher
To some ears unrecounted. But, my lords,
Have you heard any imputation to the contrary?
Admit no other way to save his life,--
I could match this beginning with an old tale.
No, I warrant your grace, you shall not entreat him
And follows but for form,
Lest your retirement do amaze your friends.
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
Amen, amen. God save thee, noble consul!
Come, enough.
Convert his gyves to graces; so that my arrows,
His grandam's wrongs, and not his mother's shames,
O courteous Tybalt! honest gentleman!
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand,
Is that poor man that hangs on princes' favours!
The merchandise which thou hast brought from Rome
and so encounter.
Her shoulder is with child.
Of nature's sale-work. 'Od's my little life,
Minds sway'd by eyes are full of turpitude.
From the east to western Ind,
My wounds ache at you.
From this enormous state, seeking to give
The heavens have thought well on thee Lafeu,
May hourly trample on their sovereign's head;
Masters, I am come hither, as it were, upon my man's
And keep eternal spring-time on thy face,
And she steal love's sweet bait from fearful hooks:
And liberal largess, are grown somewhat light,
Then have my lips the sin that they have took.
And he will look as hollow as a ghost,
[Aside]                Come what come may,
And bid my friend, for joy of this good news,
had you rather lead mine eyes, or eye your master's heels?
A brain that nourishes our nerves, and can
transform me to a piece of cheese!
Come, bring forth the prisoners.
Doth make against me of this direful murder;
Nor tackle, sail, nor mast; the very rats
And it is thought abroad, that 'twixt my sheets
A strange one as ever I looked on: I cannot get him
To tumble down thy husband and thyself
Reignier, is't thou that thinkest to beguile me?
to you: so you may continue and laugh at
Further than seen and one infect another
By treason's tooth bare-gnawn and canker-bit:
Enter Pyramus
And she whom mighty kingdoms court'sy to,
Nor ever heard, nor ever did suspect.
How hardly I was drawn into this war;
How now sir! is your merry humour alter'd?
How eagerly ye follow my disgraces,
Seek me out, and that way I am wife in,
You will be welcome with this intelligence, Nicanor.
Farewell!
Grace to stand, and virtue go;
Yet glance full wanderingly on us.
My husband!
The anointed sovereign of sighs and groans,
But, thus much, they are foul ones.
That one of two bad ways you must conceit me,
had rather have it a head: an you use these blows
Stoop'd as to foot us: his ascension is
That's monstrous: O, that that were out!
For peace itself should not so dull a kingdom,
The strength o' the enemy.
are like to dance these three days; besides the
And sometimes falling ones.
You turn the good we offer into envy.
Hold your peaces.
But where one villain is, then him abandon.
Thou wast not made his daughter; and be thou sorry
When Oxford had me down, he rescued me,
becomes you; for, out of question, you were born in
Father'd he is, and yet he's fatherless.
repent out the remainder of nature: let me live,
But that, till further trial in those charges
let it cool the while. I love Benedick well; and I
something of that jealous complexion.
The rod, and bird of peace, and all such emblems
O, you have made good work!
A noble company! what are their pleasures?
Have more than thou showest,
then, peace be with him.
The archdeacon hath divided it
Even he.
Those clouds removed, upon our watery eyne.
My state is desperate for my master's love;
There is a prone and speechless dialect,
Dies
Could neither graze nor pierce?
kind of men, the less you meddle or make with them,
What if I stray'd no further, but chose here?
of his face sours ripe grapes: when he walks, he
Wishing his foot were equal with his eye,
Am I in earth, in heaven, or in hell?
Rapier and dagger.
Hark, canst thou hear me? I will play the swan.
Make claim and title to the crown of France.
years? Wherein is he good, but to taste sack and
That did attend themselves and had the virtue
[Within]  The Lord protect him! so we answer him:
'Thou canst not choose but know who I am. If thou
Some god o' the island. Sitting on a bank,
To glean the broken ears after the man
The good precedence; fie upon 'But yet'!
When adverse foreigners affright my towns
Cassio did top her; ask thy husband else.
Or I will tear the reckoning from his heart.
As Harry Duke of Hereford, were he here.
SCENE X. Another part of the plains.
Upon Good-Friday and ne'er broke his fast:
When remedies are past, the griefs are ended
My lord, your brother John is ta'en in flight,
An you part so, mistress, I would I might never
Exit
And able means, we had not parted thus.
Lest they should spy my windpipe's dangerous notes:
Went you not to her yesterday, sir, as you told me
Well, I will be so much a sinner, to be a
I speak no more than truth.
Measures of wheat to Rome; this 'greed upon
Cuts off so many years of fearing death.
And touch thy instrument a strain or two?
for you: you have a new mistress.
To foreign casualties, gave her dear rights
Have after-nourishment and life by care;
is washed with them, but relents not.
Here's Gloucester, a foe to citizens,
Besides, I'll make a present recompense.
Nay, I do bear a brain:--but, as I said,
'Tis past eight already, sir.
No.
Would murder as it fell.
With aged cramps, and more pinch-spotted make them
Both in his words and meaning: he was never,
Ha! Portia!
Be nothing of our strife; if we contend,
She makes our profession as it were to stink afore
A contract of true love; be not too late.
Ah, Juliet, I already know thy grief;
It cannot be that she hath done thee wrong.
Well-minded Clarence, be thou fortunate!
And then return to us.
Shall pay full dearly for this encounter,
Show!
Speak, Lavinia, what accursed hand
As he being drest to some oration.'
The even mead, that erst brought sweetly forth
To half a soul and to a notion crazed
And his sandal shoon.
[Aside]  But methinks he should stand in fear of
And fetch the chain; by this I know 'tis made:
So am I given in charge, may't please your grace.
Be not you spoke with, but by mighty suit:
Why holds thine eye that lamentable rheum,
Tut, a pin! this shall be answered.
Exit
Those he commands move only in command,
Met us again and madly bent on us,
Lest that the treachery of the two fled hence
I have another suit.
What should I do with him? dress him in my apparel
all Greece.
what he gets more of her than sharp words, let it
Believe me, lords, were none more wise than I--
My leash unwillingly.
Thou that didst bear the key of all my counsels,
The sad-eyed justice, with his surly hum,
And quit the house on purpose, that their punishment
Fie! you must give way.
To try me with affliction; had they rain'd
Does not become a sword: thy great employment
Here pleasures court mine eyes, and mine eyes shun them,
Not so, my lord; I am too much i' the sun.
Enter an Attendant
down before their city Corioli; they nothing doubt
My lord would speak; my duty hushes me.
ones I dare not give. Wherefore, what's the
Most sweet lady,--
Or piteous they will look, like drowned mice.
And have their provender tied to their mouths
By this I challenge him to single fight.
The gods confound thee! dost thou hold there still?
Now thou art gone, we have no staff, no stay.
there's none abroad so wholesome as that you vent.
them thyself or take away with thee the very
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
But since you are a gentle convertite,
when he got me: therefore was I created with a
Why, he hacked it with his dagger, and said he would
And this may help to thicken other proofs
He shall not, Isabel, if you give me love.
Were harbour'd in their rude circumference.
wit shall not go unrewarded while I am king of this
Why, Jessica!
Done many things, some less, some more your voices:
Than my poor life must answer.
That stand 'twixt me and Milan, candied be they
Himself best knows: but strangely-visited people,
I have done my duty.
For 'tis a bond in men. Give him thy daughter:
Enter EDMUND, and CURAN meets him
But 'be thou true,' say I, to fashion in
These tedious old fools!
By thy favour, sweet welkin, I must sigh in thy face:
No lord of thine, thou haught insulting man,
Christian example? Why, revenge. The villany you
Didst thou deliver to me on the mart.
And to defend ourselves it be a sin
To suck the sweets of sweet philosophy.
I am left out; for me nothing remains.
'Tis poor mad Tom.
but a provoking merit, set a-work by a reprovable
escapes me without some broken limb shall acquit him
The slave of nature and the son of hell!
That you three fools lack'd me fool to make up the mess:
to three kings in a forenoon, and widow them all:
And here my mistress. Would that he were gone!
You strain too far.
a lock hanging by it, and borrows money in God's
Deposing thee before thou wert possess'd,
which is a disgrace to them, if they bear it.
and to be on foot at an hour's warning.
apples. But come; since this bar in law makes us
rather die than give any sign of affection. I did
Pray you, no more of this; 'tis like the howling
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
They have changed eyes. Delicate Ariel,
For what I will, I will, and there an end.
Therefore commend me; let him not come there,
you, Sir John: you owe me money, Sir John; and now
That may be must be, love, on Thursday next.
Oscorbidulchos volivorco.
I will, my lord, so please his majesty.
What, must our mouths be cold?
Why, 'tis found so.
to a leash of drawers; and can call them all by
To catch my death with jaunting up and down!
When I had at my pleasure taunted her
You're fall'n into a princely hand, fear nothing:
Peace, Kent!
A father and a friend to thee and Rome.
Yet, to avoid deceit, I mean to learn;
Faith, I'll not meddle in't. Let her be as she is:
It cannot be: some villains of my court
Such as I am: though for myself alone
And harsh in sound to thine.
his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? why does he
or end: well, Troilus, well: I would my heart were
Driving back shadows over louring hills:
Come from the duke: and, see, your wife is with him.
Which she shall purchase with still lasting war.
Two hot sheeps, marry.
To match thy goodness? My life will be too short,
Is it not as this mouth should tear this hand
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other--
The sixth was Thomas of Woodstock, Duke of Gloucester;
And I to thee engaged a prince's word,
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Which, wash'd away, shall scour my shame with it:
An thou wert a lion, we would do so.
There is an aunchient lieutenant there at the
Re-enter Executioners, with a cord, irons,  and c
them the wrong to mistrust any, I will do myself the
You see, is kill'd in him: and yet it is danger
Wear your eye thus, not jealous nor secure:
Be barr'd his entrance here.
In purchasing the semblance of my soul
If we do meet again, we'll smile indeed;
And our good his.
him: something too crabbed that way, friar.
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
there; and yet it will no more but abide.
appeles de fingres; oui, de fingres.
As Cleopatra this. But, sir, forgive me;
dozens? Is this Moorfields to muster in? or have
Is't possible that so short a time can alter the
To bid AEneas tell the tale twice o'er,
I am glad of it; for now I shall have reason
dream. Here, here, here be my keys: ascend my
What think you of it?
Why, here walk I in the black brow of night,
This is the air; that is the glorious sun;
talk through the chink of a wall.
she herself, without other advantage, may lawfully
Lays her full mess before you. Want! why want?
Re-enter IRAS with a robe, crown,  and c
So soon as that spare Cassius. He reads much;
Enter JOHN OF GAUNT with DUCHESS
Most incident to maids; bold oxlips and
Made the all-honour'd, honest Roman, Brutus,
good fortunes.
To gratify the good Andronicus,
By giving the house of Lancaster leave to breathe,
Dukes of Cornwall and Albany?
The man's undone forever; for if Hector break not his
To throw my sceptre at the injurious gods;
themselves have provided that I shall have much help
How dost thou like the Lord Bassanio's wife?
provocation.
Before I have a husband for the elder:
What, is Antonio here?
That sticks on filthy deeds.
The hand that hath made you fair hath made you good:
O murderous coxcomb! what should such a fool
Where virtue is, these are more virtuous:
Do not betray me, sir. I fear you love Mistress Page.
Wish we all joy and honour.
If all could so become it.
Being of no power to make his wishes good:
Shall I descend? and will you give me leave?
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
And should he doubt it, as no doubt he doth,
Except some petty towns of no import:
I here abjure, and, when I have required
Lord Buckingham, methinks, you watch'd her well:
Under the gods, keep you in awe, which else
Expire before the flowers in their caps,
Make a short shrift; he longs to see your head.
What faults he made before the last, I think
The common voice, I see, is verified
thing. A plague of all cowards, I say still.
between France and him. Pray you, let's hit
Andronicus, I will entreat the king;
earwax: and the goodly transformation of Jupiter
Steps aside
Calmly, good Laertes.
proclamation. Let him be but testimonied in his own
You shall hear one anon.
Else Paris and the medicine and the king
Prick not your finger as you pluck it off,
I cannot conjure, Trojan.
So when this thief, this traitor, Bolingbroke,
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
Is't possible that my deserts to you
Shunn'd my abhorr'd society; but then, finding
Therefore to our best mercy give yourselves;
away where my hogshead of wine is, or I'll turn you
As rootedly as I. Burn but his books.
And, by that fatherly and kindly power
and as mine honesty puts it to utterance.
Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt:
No, no, I am but shadow of myself:
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Is not yond Diomed, with Calchas' daughter?
What hast thou done?
God save the king! God save the king!
O Tamora! was ever heard the like?
prince. But, Hal, I prithee, trouble me no more
Now the gods keep you old enough; that you may live
Play fast and loose with faith? so jest with heaven,
Stain to thy countrymen, thou hear'st thy doom!
Where's Dick, the butcher of Ashford?
Aside
Hear nought from Rome in private. Your request?
Why dost thou ask again?
In praise of Henry Percy: by my hopes,
SCENE VI. The same.
We can afford no more at such a price.
To FLAVIUS
Re-enter HELENA
As when, by night and negligence, the fire
Sweet madam.
Princes, that strive by factions and by friends
I'll to my rest.
The lion dying thrusteth forth his paw,
Now, Harry, whence come you?
I do obey thee till I give thee bail.
Base Trojan, thou shalt die.
Tranio, since for the great desire I had
Your wisdom should show itself more richer to
By this hand, it will not kill a fly. But come, now
And, being a winner, God give you good night!
He will stay till ye come.
Outlives encertain pomp, is crown'd before:
Thy lips that kiss'd the queen shall sweep the ground;
I never tasted Timon in my life,
My father's loss, like a most royal prince,
I wonder at it.
He lessens his requests; and to thee sues
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
O, a stool and a cushion for the sexton.
Seek him, and bring him hither.
Ay, for fault of a better.
That I may kindly give one fainting kiss.
An old, an old instance, Beatrice, that lived in
O then, tread down my need, and faith mounts up;
O, say thou for her, who hath done this deed?
In all swift haste.
fair, or I'll   never look on her; mild, or come not
With mine own tears I wash away my balm,
No remedy, my lord, when walls are so wilful to hear
Come, come and lay him in his father's arms:
And shall, or some of us will smart for it.
While shame full late sleeps out the afternoon.
To draw the brats of Clarence out of sight;
It is a reeling world, indeed, my lord;
Yet, Derby, notwithstanding she's your wife,
Now do thou watch, for I can stay no longer.
Nay, sir, less than a pound shall serve me for
Which, since, succeeding ages have re-edified.
You so remain.
And worthily, my falsehood! yea, as much
Even like a fawning greyhound in the leash,
Had loved you as we did.
How now, my sweet creature of bombast!
Exit
One of our souls had wander'd in the air.
During whose reign the Percies of the north,
scurvy, lousy knave, God pless you!
And stain my favours in a bloody mask,
Believe it, for you know it. There is money; spend
To laughter and contempt; that she may feel
Enter MARDIAN
power and corrigible authority of this lies in our
Since you are dear bought, I will love you dear.
Pandarus,--
Hath well composed thee. Thy father's moral parts
Shall for my legacy be sanctified
And that thou thought'st thy griefs might equal mine,
Such garments and such years: 'The boy is fair,
That all men follow.
O, how this discord doth afflict my soul!
Your honour and your goodness teach me to't,
No? Come, brother; away! I will be heard.
Remain there but an hour, nor speak to me:
Not having that, which, having, makes them short.
Now, by the salt wave of the Mediterraneum, a sweet
Does it not, think'st thee, stand me now upon--
Call hither Barnardine and Claudio:
For he himself is subject to his birth:
That could control the moon, make flows and ebbs,
[To KING RICHARD III]
[Aside]  I'll blast his harvest, if your head were laid;
What, all so soon asleep! I wish mine eyes
ink-horn about his neck.
Salt Cleopatra, soften thy waned lip!
therefore I will attempt the doing it.
To the last hour of act; and then 'tis thought
Too much to know is to know nought but fame;
not open my lips so wide as a bristle may enter in
Which the eye fears, when it is done, to see.
With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?
What sorrow craves acquaintance at my hand,
Opinion, that did help me to the crown,
Exeunt DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, and CLAUDIO
His private arbours and new-planted orchards,
O, you and I have heard our fathers say,
[Within]  Francis!
RICHARD
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
The noble sister of Publicola,
yet look after thee? Wilt thou, after the expense
Relieved, but not betray'd.
Drink, servant-monster, when I bid thee: thy eyes
Until the heavens, envying earth's good hap,
And I was trimm'd in Madam Julia's gown,
Her mother is the lady of the house,
This way for me.
From out the circle of his territories.
Therefore, away with her, and use her as you will,
My mind did lose it. But, Demetrius, come;
I shall unfold to thee, as we are going
I should not urge thy duty past thy might;
For doing worthy vengeance on thyself,
The o'erpress'd spirits. I heard of an Egyptian
a-field to-day?
For which I would not plead, but that I must;
'Here I give to understand,
First mend my company, take away thyself.
Have been so brief with you, to shorten you,
When fame shall in our islands sound her trump,
Ha!
Devoured by the unexpected flood.
To join in Hymen's bands,
It likes us well;
hill, let him draw thee after. When a wise man
And I to live and die her slave.
To be protector of his excellence?
Else, when he's found, that hour is his last.
I here engage my words.
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Faith, holy uncle, would
from you: how had you been my friends else? why
Three knights upon our party slain to-day,
But can you, if you would?
This is a fellow of the self-same colour
To DUKE OF AUMERLE
If he should still malignantly remain
but if he had not been in drink, he would have
Stay: whence are you?
It is a man's office, but not yours.
The ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Ambitious love hath so in me offended,
CYMBELINE and IMOGEN come forward
Exeunt QUINCE, SNUG, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
Lionel Duke of Clarence: next to whom
Why, for that too.
Mark you that?
Well, sir, good night.
As thy desires can wish.
I should have been a sore one then.
There will be woe indeed, lords: the sly whoresons
therefore the sadness is without limit.
Nor cowardly in retire: believe me, sirs,
Arms, arms, sword, fire! Corruption in the place!
Paid ere he promised; whereby his suit was granted
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Half won is match well made; match, and well make it;
But cloaks and gowns, before this day, a many.
SCENE II. Bury St. Edmund's. A room of state.
Thou ever young, fresh, loved and delicate wooer,
His thinkings are below the moon, not worth
How now! what's the matter?
Here comes Kent.
Ay, but the citizens favor Lucius,
Yet, I think, we are not brought so low,
Give it to me: what, is it in the case?
The heads of Oxford, Salisbury, Blunt, and Kent:
you got the picture of old Adam new-apparelled?
Usurps the regal title and the seat
Fellow thou, awake!
lily-livered, action-taking knave, a whoreson,
Till his deserts are past, begin to throw
Exeunt Whitmore and others with Suffolk
You speak o' the people,
How now, fair lords! What fare? what news abroad?
I will not hence, till, with my talk and tears,
Thou mayst prove false; at lovers' perjuries
Do, good my friend.
Caesar fell down. If the tag-rag people did not
have great charge.
O hear me, Isabella!
Betwixt you and the cardinal. I advise you--
O, speak again, bright angel! for thou art
Not I	pray you, what are they?
you: but believe me not; and yet I lie not; I
Each one, tripping on his toe,
Bohemia greets you from himself by me;
In right and service of their noble country
As in a vault, an ancient receptacle,
You shall not bob us out of our melody: if you do,
Having received the punishment before,
I never more will break an oath with thee.
His leather skin and horns to wear.
This bold bad man.
and the clearstores toward the south north are as
than any man in all Venice. His reasons are as two
But, in the wind and tempest of her frown,
Ere clean it o'erthrow nature, makes it valiant,
And here commit you to my lord cardinal
Should strike such terror to his enemies.
The treasury of everlasting joy.
I would be friends with you and have your love,
Lavinia is thine elder brother's hope.
Exit
Grant I may never prove so fond,
You would have bid me argue like a father.
Prithee now,
Where I espied the panther fast asleep.
Clock heard
hast thou a mark to thyself, like an honest
She is herself a dowry.
Whose note full many a man doth mark,
Master, it is no time to chide you now;
Are suitors to you.
Lucius, what book is that she tosseth so?
Let him not die. My brother had but justice,
This rudeness is a sauce to his good wit,
If wisdom be in suffering. O my lords,
Enter COMINIUS, as it were in retire, with soldiers
Bless you, sir!
Which native she doth owe.
That his blood flows, or that his appetite
That seeks his praise more than he fears his peril,
Away, away! Once more, sweet lords farewell.
Where both not sin, and yet a sinful fact:
Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won,
Enter the Lord Mayor and Citizens
He says he does, being then most flattered.
O woful time!
Which to prevent he made a law,
Which by thy younger brother is supplied,
Bardolph, be blithe: Nym, rouse thy vaunting veins:
Enter PERICLES
Why, then comes in the sweet o' the year;
This is hard and undeserved measure, my lord.
Good my liege,--
And seize upon the fortunes of the Moor,
[Beating him]  You whoreson cur!
Ay, and what I do too: look thee, I'll but lean,
What art thou that keepest me out from the house I owe?
Weep for my pardon. So it must be, for now
[Aside]  But when the fox hath once got in his nose,
Let it not, Brutus.
Romeo will answer it.
Though standing naked on a mountain top,
SCENE VI. The same.
taking, I doubt me.
What a plague mean ye to colt me thus?
Who's there? come in: the wish deserves a welcome.
Here, here! for heaven's sake, help me!
The mystery of your loneliness, and find
As from the body of contraction plucks
That joineth Rouen unto her countrymen,
And that you'ld guide me to your sovereign's court,
Richard Plantagenet, my friend, is he come?
Could be so rarely and exactly wrought,
now my foes tell me plainly I am an ass: so that by
of the forest and to couple us.
[Within]  I do beseech you
That Caesar is more dangerous than he:
The wager thou hast won; and I will add
This accident is not unlike my dream:
O, vengeance!
Come, you are pleasant.
Newly alighted, and come to visit you.
And I will help thee to prefer her too:
Who 'twas that cut thy tongue and ravish'd thee.
I have a kind soul that would give you thanks
ANTIPHOLUS
A gentleman of mine I have dispatch'd
By this our book is drawn; we'll but seal,
Here is a friar, that trembles, sighs and weeps:
What pledge have we of thy firm loyalty?
Incline to it, or no?
At nothing can be more. I'll to my book,
Now for the counsel of my son and queen!
'gree you now?
Nay, then,--
By the heels, and suddenly; and on your heads
To doff their dire distresses.
But qualify the fire's extreme rage,
To call his fortunes thine.
Renowned suitors, and her sunny locks
Which now are midway stopp'd:
But I can tell you that of late this duke
Of such misery doth she cut me off.
That weaken motion: I'll have't disputed on;
Within this wooden O the very casques
Ha, ha, ha! Well, masters, good night: an there be
Our sister speaks of. Come, bring away the stocks!
In Richard's time; and posted day and night
By heaven, all dry-beaten with pure scoff!
And not in fear of your nativity.
No care of yours it is; you know 'tis ours.
Peering in maps for ports and piers and roads;
SCENE VI. Rome. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
'Tis better said than done, my gracious lord:
Hath claw'd me in his clutch,
flattered the people, who ne'er loved them; and there
That way inclining, harden'd be the hearts
How many score of miles may we well ride
It is some meteor that the sun exhales,
That he dares ne'er come back to challenge you;
I see, sir, you are eaten up with passion:
Than I did truly find her, stakes this ring;
And tender preservation of our person,
Of starved people.
Courage and hope both teaching him the practise,
I may, for some things true, wherein my youth
you a dozen of shirts to your back.
Clock strikes
Of what, lady? of speaking honourably? Is not
What crows have peck'd them here. He brags
O, God help me! God help me! how long have you
Who knows not that the noble duke is dead?
move under the influence of the most received star;
You have done wrong to this my honest friend,
Do seem to be of ours?
sings at grave-making?
It will be rain to-night.
In that be made more bitter. Fear o'ershades me:
When as the enemy hath been ten to one:
With cunning hast thou filch'd my daughter's heart,
If fortune brag of two she loved and hated,
Exist, and be a member of his love
Nay, but he'll be here presently: let's go dress him
Away! the foul fiend follows me!
And wet my cheeks with artificial tears,
Enter BANQUO
To lose his head; condemn'd by Angelo:
Didst thou not tell me, Griffith, as thou led'st me,
Which only lives but by the death of faith,
Or does he walk? or is he on his horse?
Would hang themselves. Physic for't there is none;
Upon them! victory sits on our helms.
Be all my sins remember'd.
Disappears
Yet am I sworn and I did purpose, boy,
You made it known to us.
Their manners are so apish.
Give it a plum, a cherry, and a fig:
Away, away, mad ass! his name is Lucentio and he is
Their bloody sign of battle is hung out,
This night's great business into my dispatch;
Murder in heaven?--How!--'Tis gone. Pisanio,
I am with child, ye bloody homicides:
Fridays. He's not past it yet, and I say to thee,
If it will not be, I'll leave you.
monstrous villain!
But that I cannot do ten thousand more.
And let the subject see, to make them know
Bring me no more reports; let them fly all:
Thou shall present me as an eunuch to him:
Thy love! out, tawny Tartar, out!
I know my price, I am worth no worse a place:
He stifles her
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
I think thou dost;
Master Ford, you must pray, and not follow the
[Aside]  Simonides!
Find mercy in the law, 'tis his: if none,
All with me's meet that I can fashion fit.
Shall see their children kind.
Hath made her break out into terms of rage!
Till thou canst quit thee by thy brothers mouth
No more, gentlemen, no more:--here comes my father.
appearing what we are, have some question with the
Revenge, ye heavens, for old Andronicus!
Re-enter Clown with a letter, and FABIAN
That thou mightst join her hand with his
nine sparrows for a penny, and his pia mater is not
Are then most humble; I have no ambition
What would they, say they?
woman's heart; and, I warrant you, they could never
I beseech your honour,
one!
be misprised: we will make it our suit to the duke
This bloody man, the care on't. I hope I dream;
Which by a vision sent to her from heaven
The trumpery in my house, go bring it hither,
Had I but died an hour before this chance,
Strange images of death. As thick as hail
SCENE I. Padua. BAPTISTA'S house.
It shall be so:
Richmond, in Yorkshire, sent out a boat
utter all to thee.
must act for me, if thy faith be not tainted with
And curb this cruel devil of his will.
It should seem, then, that Dobbin's tail grows
So bad an instrument: his name's Parolles.
[Aside]  All will revolt from me, and turn to him.
Fear you not him. Sirrah Biondello,
Began a fresh assault.
is risen: why stay we prating here? to the Capitol!
Command the conquest, Charles, it shall be thine,
Valiant I am.
Now will I dam up this thy yawning mouth
Tucket, within
But for our trusty brother-in-law and the abbot,
Enter a Master and a Boatswain
To ransom my two nephews from their death;
Did glad my heart with hope of this young Richmond,
Why, what's the matter?
I have.
And great affinity, and that in wholesome wisdom
Grew by our feeding to so great a bulk
shoe trod upon God's ground and his earth, in my
She laugh'd, and told the Moor he should not choose
Why you are heavy, and what men to-night
When it is lighted, come and call me here.
Your mother well hath pray'd, and prove you true.
Of all exploits since first I follow'd arms,
My lord of Gloucester, 'tis my special hope
friends for my wife's sake.
Should censure thus on lovely gentlemen.
he would mouth with a beggar, though she smelt brown
True, true; we are four.
To tell thee plain, I aim to lie with thee.
the same kind! This would make mercy swear and play
I will to Venice; Sunday comes apace:
Then heaven
Hag-seed, hence!
Have, sure, more lack of reason. What would you say?
Holy and heavenly thoughts still counsel her:
Now will not I deliver his letter: for the behavior
lieutenant is to be saved before the ancient. Let's
Alas, my lord, I cannot fight; for God's sake, pity
With courtesy and with respect enough;
Why not a mother? When I said 'a mother,'
hath not the gout, for the one sleeps easily because
But fare you well: perforce I must confess
My lord, I hear the Marquis Dorset's fled
[Sings]
Lives, honours, lands and all hurry to loss.
In love the heavens themselves do guide the state;
ACT V
At upper end o' the table, now i' the middle;
[Aside]  He heard not that.
What ship of Epidamnum stays for me?
we shall never see the end of it. Who goes there?
Enter Sir William LUCY, attended; Herald of the French preceding
That we meet here so strangely: but her son
And when thy car is loaden with their heads,
I was a poor groom of thy stable, king,
Or if you will, to speak more properly,
day during his life; he could not have 'scaped
I will assume desert. Give me a key for this,
Know'st now the youth that spoke to me erewhile?
Which we more hunt for than the grace of God!
It's fit it should be so; for princes are
By the defiling of her parent's bed;
not horribly afraid? doth not thy blood thrill at
Methinks I should not thus be led along,
And hardening of my brows.
yours: cloth o' gold, and cuts, and laced with
So far afoot, I shall be weary, love.
--said I well?--and thy name shall be Brook. It is
too rough;
[To the Citizens]  Hence to your homes; be gone!
To make me hunger more; that I should forge
Were to us all, that do't and suffer it,
If I demand, before this royal view,
Before the times of change, still is it so:
By which I did blame Cato for the death
Demetrius is a worthy gentleman.
Where thou mayst knock a nail into his bead.
I'll see that straight.
Monsieur le Fer.
To-night at Herne's oak, just 'twixt twelve and one,
Made a divorce betwixt his queen and him,
There's a strong fellow, Menas.
withal and who he stands still withal.
because your heart is in love with her; and out of
I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano;
with it and swear it was the blood of true men. I
I will now hear; what say you of this gentlewoman?
To a most hideous object: thence it came
Know I these men that come along with you?
My breast I'll burst with straining of my courage
Why the devil,
But who comes here?
Now, by God's mother, priest, I'll shave your crown for this,
Though Argus were her eunuch and her guard:
What is love? 'tis not hereafter;
Of all rejoindure, forcibly prevents
Gentle lover, remedy.
A married life.
Of mortals that fall back to gaze on him
An heir, and near allied unto the duke.
She was not, sure.
this is the glove of Alencon, that your majesty is
The gentlest winds of heaven.
So soon as dinner's done, we'll forth again,
To enforce these rights so forcibly withheld.
And make her full of hateful fantasies.
Against my power; thrice from the banks of Wye
God and his angels guard your sacred throne
Lord governor, for so we hear you are,
Hear me, recreant!
Jack Cade proclaims himself Lord Mortimer,
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
To touch his growth nearer than he touch'd mine.
And, madam, at your father's castle walls
you farewell.
I would, not so!--and would no more endure
I stand here for him: what to him from England?
Exeunt Pyramus and Thisbe
Did murder her; as that name's cursed hand
I know, they do attend us.
Finish the process of his sandy hour,
To BOYET
And, after some small space, being strong at heart,
Which Lion vile with bloody mouth did stain.
Sole sir o' the world,
The general cause? or is it a fee-grief
pity: yet I'll tarry till my son come; he hallooed
If you give place to accidental evils.
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
And prologue to the omen coming on,
Richmond! When last I was at Exeter,
No, not I;
And you, sir! Would you speak with me?
Advances
what monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go,
Bardolph, get thee before to Coventry; fill me a
I crave your honour's pardon.
To her allowing husband!
But that thou overheard'st, ere I was ware,
Well, husband your device; I'll to the vicar:
Deliver this with modesty to the queen.
Speak sweetly, man, although thy looks be sour.
your eyes; with your arms crossed on your thin-belly
A very riband in the cap of youth,
A better ear. Menas, I did not think
And I'll request your presence.
O, my fair cousin, I must not say so.
Unsheathe your sword, and dub him presently.
Whose loss hath pierced him deep and scarr'd his heart;
Base tike, call'st thou me host? Now, by this hand,
Upon what cause?
Throwing down a glove
Good morrow, Master Gadshill. It holds current that
ACT V
We were enforced, for safety sake, to fly
What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure
Is twice the other twain: but let us rear
Faith, unless you play the honest Troyan, the poor
He knows I am no maid, and he'll swear to't;
Should choose himself a wife, but as good reason
No glory lives behind the back of such.
The Goths have gather'd head; and with a power
And it is meet I presently set forth.
The high promotion of his grace of Canterbury;
discharged. But come, your Bergomask: let your
Anon, as patient as the female dove,
O that your highness knew my heart in this!
And bosom'd with her, as far as we call hers.
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
Walk here i' the orchard, I'll bring her straight.
Take him up gently and to bed with him;
Insolent villain!
Here.
Ere death dare come to us? How do you, women?
How that the cardinal did entreat his holiness
The unviolated honour of your wife.
Therefore no marvel though Demetrius
What brings you here to court so hastily?
'Remember who commended thy yellow stocking s,'--
He, on his right, asking a wife for Edward.
Exeunt SILVIA and THURIO
Against the state and profit of this land;
But flies an eagle flight, bold and forth on,
What you require of him? for he partly begs
Beseech your patience. Peace,
Address yourself to entertain them sprightly,
What says Andronicus to this device?
Thou stickest a dagger in me: I shall never see my
Deliver'd by a friend that came from him.
Else would he never so demean himself.
Let me wipe off this honourable dew,
They may astonish these fell-lurking curs:
Didst rob it of some taste of tediousness.
Doth rise and fall between thy rosed lips,
As thou art liege-man to us, that thou carry
Have added slaughter to the sword of traitors.
Patroclus' wounds have roused his drowsy blood,
[Reads]  'By the Lord, madam, you wrong me, and the
You fen-suck'd fogs, drawn by the powerful sun,
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Taking his red rose out of his hat
But thus condition'd: thou shalt build from men;
So out of thought, and thereto so o'ergrown,
As in revenge of thy ingratitude,
Sir Thurio, fear not you: I will so plead
Sea-water shalt thou drink; thy food shall be
To stand the push and enmity of those
speak what I know.
manhood is melted into courtesies, valour into
In common worldly things, 'tis call'd ungrateful,
Hum! I guess at it.
Most ignorant of what he's most assured,
[To COMINIUS]                Lead you on.
That's not my fear; my meed hath got me fame:
shall be encountered with a man as good as himself:
If we without his help can make a head
When Laban and himself were compromised
most mighty for thy place and sway,
preposterous estate as we are.
But one thing to rejoice and solace in,
She is so self-endeared.
Come, gentle night, come, loving, black-brow'd night,
These fifteen years you have been in a dream;
Let them have cushions by you. You are plebeians,
For on that ground I'll build a holy descant:
Arthur, that great forerunner of thy blood,
truly, he is very courageous mad about his throwing
Whom thou wert sworn to cherish and defend.
Upon his good and gracious nature hanging
Here, sweet, put up this: 'twill be thine another day.
Immoment toys, things of such dignity
I was, my lord.
And thought thee happy when I shook my head?
SCENE VI. An open place in the neighbourhood of Swinstead Abbey.
mistress enforced; thy garments cut to pieces before
Do challenge thee to trial of a man.
Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own tears
In the cradle where it lies.
To a Gentleman, who goes out
Unbuckle, unbuckle.
The gracious queen, part of his theme, but nothing
country, simple though I stand here.
And when I have my meed, I must away;
And rob his temples of the diadem,
Your uncle York is join'd with Bolingbroke,
His hours fill'd up with riots, banquets, sports,
And promise them success and victory.
A proverb never stale in thrifty mind.
Her only fault, and that is faults enough,
But you, Lorenzo, whether I am yours?
thy mind is a very opal. I would have men of such
If you have writ your annals true, 'tis there,
A lord to a lord, a man to a man; stuffed with all
Take notice, lords, he has a loyal breast,
That's all one: you shall play it in a mask, and
Does not divide the Sunday from the week;
Make room, and let him stand before our face.
As good a gentleman as the emperor.
that you shall think yourself bound to put it on
And, I think, if my breast had not been made of
Madam, I pity much your grievances;
Myself I throw, dread sovereign, at thy foot.
Here: what news?
How comes it that the subtle Queen of Goths
Turn thou the mouth of thy artillery,
To't.
With instruments upon them, fit to open
I am alone the villain of the earth,
Here they shoot. SALISBURY and GARGRAVE fall
Give me thy gold, if thou hast any gold:
Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
And critic Timon laugh at idle toys!
Exit
Thou wouldst have changed thy face for a name or thy
O, let me pray before I take my death!
Look you, who comes here; a young man and an old in
If we mean to thrive and do good, break open the
I will not lend thee a penny.
Lucilius and Titinius, bid the commanders
The deck, with glove, or hat, or handkerchief,
So strongly guarded.
At some time when his soaring insolence
Put off that gown, Trinculo; by this hand, I'll have
Enter Chamberlain
threatened to beat her.
The wildest savagery, the vilest stroke,
No, they are free that gave these tokens to us.
When thou wert regent for our sovereign,
King John did fly an hour or two before
In Cleopatra's sails their nests: the augurers
Please but your honour hear me.
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM, meeting
The sun begins to gild the western sky;
We have noted it. Call her before us; for
orchard, were thus much overheard by a man of mine:
But she is dead.
You say, if I bring in your Rosalind,
And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous
Enter SALARINO and SALANIO
If she do bid me pack, I'll give her thanks,
It is qui, quae, quod: if you forget your 'quies,'
Throttle their practised accent in their fears
In this so sudden business.
read you; and let us to our work.
Enter Chamberlain and SANDS
in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
Do you persuade yourself that I respect you?
coming a-night to Jane Smile; and I remember the
be--drunk to bed.
The shirt of Nessus is upon me: teach me,
Will sate itself in a celestial bed,
And by the worth and honour of himself,
hands on him?
And he our subjects' next degree in hope.
They shall go far with little.
I have heard her reported to be a woman of an
Amiss to tumble on the bed of Ptolemy;
Far be it we should honour such as these
The time and my intents are savage-wild,
Steps aside
What men provided, what munition sent,
coil at home: it is proved my Lady Hero hath been
Find you that there?
that's stinking. Let go thy hold when a great wheel
'thus I would teach a dog.' I was sent to deliver
I knew 'twas I; for many do call me fool.
Your worship's wife, my mistress at the Phoenix;
If you please,
My liege,
Are you all resolved to give your voices? But
O, let us have him, for his silver hairs
That you are now a maid. Thus then in brief:
Could witness it, for he was with me then;
Nay, I will; that's flat:
My countrymen,--
Sir Proteus, what says Silvia to my suit?
Give way there, and go on!
Enter CLIFFORD and Soldiers
Here's to thee, Menas!
This body, like to them, to what I must;
And, for my sake, stay here with Antony:
For if I do, I'll mar the young clerk's pen.
There you shall find that Portia was the doctor,
Was he not here?
Why, there thou say'st: and the more pity that
While I myself will lead a private life
A thousand businesses are brief in hand,
We cannot afford you so.
and returned me expectations and comforts of sudden
Upon his palm!--How now, you wanton calf!
To stand on either part.
This was well done, my bird.
SCENE II. A room in the prison.
Here is neither cheer, sir, nor welcome: we would
[Returning]  My lord, I would I might entreat
That I am faulty in Duke Humphrey's death.
Re-enter the FRENCH KING and his QUEEN, BURGUNDY, and other Lords
And the rarest that e'er came there.
Here comes the holy legate of the pope.
Golden Apollo, a poor humble swain,
Look on thy country, look on fertile France,
How fain, like Pilate, would I wash my hands
Why give you me this shame?
Did you converse, sir, with this gentlewoman?
O Mistress Ford, what have you done? You're shamed,
Each minute, some.
But then Aufidius was with in my view,
[Aside]  She was, indeed, a pedler's daughter, and
The gods forbid!
baisant la main d'une de votre seigeurie indigne
My fault being nothing--as I have told you oft--
And I am going with instruction to him.
Pray you, sir, who's his tailor?
think in their hearts they may effect, they will
With child, perhaps?
Gall! bitter.
With customary compliment; when he,
Is that Camillo was an honest man;
With brazen din blast you the city's ear;
I am resolved for death or dignity.
By my troth, it is well said; 'for himself to mar,'
Was never call'd to bear my part,
Exeunt
most omnipotent villain that ever cried 'Stand' to
mine: wilt thou serve me?
Both full of truth, I make King Lewis behold
Makes speed to catch the tiger; bootless speed,
Great reason; for 'past cure is still past care.'
Your graces find me here part of a housewife,
From Antony win Cleopatra: promise,
A fault on us, your tribunes; that we laboured,
And I beseech you come again to-morrow.
I see into thy end, and am almost
His agile arm beats down their fatal points,
Marshal the rest, as they deserve their grace.
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
Thou shouldst have made him
Heaven bless us!
That in the captain's but a choleric word,
I will not hear thee speak. This man, Aufidius,
Enter GOWER
I give him his answer?
Well learned is that tongue that well can thee commend,
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
are now to examination these men.
And in the witness of his proper ear,
O learned judge! Mark, Jew: a learned judge!
Which owe the crown that thou o'ermasterest?
Burnt up those logs that you are enjoin'd to pile!
strikes one.
The turbulent surge shall cover: thither come,
heard! Steel, if thou turn the edge, or cut not out
Come, come, my lords;
What men have you lost, Fluellen?
Ten and eleven?
Bring forth men-children only;
And made our footstool of security.
SCENE VI. Another room in the castle.
shall I be revenged on him? for revenged I will be,
Goes upright with his carriage. How's the day?
I'll write it straight;
Go to: where lodges he?
Say, what's thy name?
Say I she is not fair?
And we, I hope, sir, are no murderers.
Without more overture.
They fight, and EDGAR knocks him down
These be the Christian husbands. I have a daughter;
This day all quarrels die, Andronicus;
[To KING RICHARD III]
let's ha' some sport with 'em.
For time is like a fashionable host
Unheard. Lychorida!--Lucina, O
Who I believe was pack'd in all this wrong,
I pray you stand good father to me now,
Shall I not lie in publishing a truth?
I swear by that which I will lose for thee,
Enter PUCK
When it appears to you where this begins,
Count Claudio, whom you sent me to seek.
O, thou, whose wounds become hard-favour'd death,
Mistress, 'respice finem,' respect your end; or
The man hath seen some majesty, and should know.
'Tis certain, greatness, once fall'n out with fortune,
So doves do peck the falcon's piercing talons;
Royal Antiochus--on what cause I know not--
I would I had that corporal soundness now,
To CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
To be consorted with the humorous night:
And knowing this kingdom is without a head,--
Call you this chiding?
Honourable Menenius, my boy Marcius approaches; for
What, ho, Brabantio! Signior Brabantio, ho!
She is spread of late
Enter KING RICHARD and his attendants below
Edward the Black Prince died before his father
Fear no more the lightning flash,
He ne'er lift up his hand but conquered.
My lord, this is a fond and desperate creature,
That marks thee out for hell: I say, thou liest,
That he would wed me, or else die my lover.
she wished me: alone she was, and did communicate
Yet, as we may, we'll meet both thee and Warwick.
Of any promise that hath pass'd from him.
To lead 'em once again; and then let's dream
Then know that I have little wealth to lose:
You were to blame, I must be plain with you,
What effects, my lord? She will sit you, you heard
As bright as is the eagle's, lightens forth
In cruelty will I seek out my fame.
Beats them out, and then retires to his cave
Shall enter me with him.
And threat me I shall never come to bliss
He talks at random; sure, the man is mad.
Still climbing trees in the Hesperides?
Malicious practises against his state:
I beseech your honour, one piece for me.
Here is such patchery, such juggling and such
Becomes thee well enough.
After his patient's death: the king already
From both, my lord. Bellario greets your grace.
SCENE II. Athens. QUINCE'S house.
Was like, and had indeed against us pass'd,
Which runs himself and catches for his master.
My hope is gone, now Suffolk is deceased.
Ay, of a snail; for though he comes slowly, he
As hush'd on purpose to grace harmony!
For mine own part,--no offence to the general, nor
But if there be not in our Grecian host
As 'tis said, the bastard son of Gloucester.
That temple, thy fair mind, that thou mayst stand,
Before I positively herein:
desire to live.
their possets,
Do not curst wives hold that self-sovereignty
as you would say, a cobbler.
He is both king and Duke of Lancaster;
But Valentine, if he be ta'en, must die.
His horses go about.
They fell upon me, bound me, bore me thence
And when the dusky sky began to rob
Where nothing wants that want itself doth seek.
Didst thou not kill this king?
I would have been much more a fresher man,
They are polluted offerings, more abhorr'd
A merry heart goes all the day,
Good sir, be a man;
Like balls before me; I'll unhair thy head:
One, lady, if you knew his pure heart's truth,
on mine honour; and so, I pray, go with us.
They sleep
She does abuse our ears: to prison with her.
Though Page be a secure fool, an stands so firmly
there is shrewd construction made of her. Now, Sir
The saddest spectacle that e'er I view'd.
And trust no agent; for beauty is a witch
'Tis so.
In my green velvet coat, my dagger muzzled,
rheum: therefore is it most expedient for the
What, hast thou been long blind and now restored?
Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
mind's free,
And I will send you to my brother Gloucester,
That her old gloves were on, but 'twas her hands:
Sur mes genoux je vous donne mille remercimens; et
So tell your master.
When, after execution, judgment hath
Exit
Be it his pleasure.
Welcome, Sir Walter Blunt; and would to God
That I protest I simply am a maid.
I thank you for your own. Now, gentlemen,
Is Claudio thine enemy?
It grieves me for the death of Claudio;
Shall she be placed in my constant soul.
Holds idleness your subject, I should take you
Do you know them?
Not fearing the displeasure of your master,
Let that suffice. I have trusted thee, Camillo,
What, dead, my dove?
Then is it likely thou wilt undertake
As if thou never walk'st further than Finsbury.
SCENE II. London. An apartment of the Prince's.
Is led on in the conduct of my will;
Have done with words, my lords, and hear me speak.
Out of the gripes of cruel men, and give it
no stronger than the word of a tapster; they are
That in your country's service drew your swords:
subjection.
Your carriage from the court. My noble mistress,
Where a malignant and a turban'd Turk
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, and OLIVER
impossible places. Though what I am I cannot avoid,
I threaten'd to discover him: he replied,
[Reads]  'When he swears oaths, bid him drop gold, and take it;
SCENE II. A room in LEONATO'S house
subjects afore thee like a flock of wild-geese,
And lay them gently on thy tender side.
Doth this man serve God?
every morning.
Why, there thou hast it: two deep enemies,
[Within]  What, ho! what, ho! what, ho!
A letter was deliver'd to my hands,
To him one of the other twins was bound,
him, draw; and, as thou drawest swear horrible; for
But, notwithstanding, with my personal eye
Nay, if thy wits run the wild-goose chase, I have
What think you? may we, with the warrant of
perjury; some, making the wars their bulwark, that
I'll have no bigger: this doth fit the time,
I have got two worlds by 't. O my gentle brothers,
A curse shall light upon the limbs of men;
O, never
And strike her home by force, if not by words:
But the plain single vow that is vow'd true.
Lay hands upon him.
These two young gentlemen, that call me father
'Come, sweet Audrey:
neither choose whom I would nor refuse whom I
The borrow of a week. When at Bohemia
And, like a forester, the groves may tread,
And out of my dear love I'll give thee more
Sweep your way for you. Pray you, look not sad,
years in doing and now newly performed by that rare
backs, what shall poor men do? For me, I am here a
Thus speaks of him at Rome: but I will hope
Let the devil and his dam haunt you! What did you
He climbs the wall, and leaps down within it
To keep with you at meals, comfort your bed,
With Mars fall out, with Juno chide,
How now, dear sovereign, and our gracious mother!
Most sincerely.
Well, Time is the old justice that examines all such
enjoyed nothing of Ford's but his buck-basket, his
knives to cut one another's throats?
I say, this house is as dark as ignorance, though
Laugh'd in his face; and when with grief he wept,
capacity and breeding; his employment between his
Down with the topmast! yare! lower, lower! Bring
O, I am yours, and all that I possess!
This morning, like the spirit of a youth
Till thou art here aloft, or I below:
This England never did, nor never shall,
To ear the land that hath some hope to grow,
Wear it myself. Follow, good cousin Warwick:
Brother, the time and case requireth haste:
Is not Gaunt dead, and doth not Hereford live?
Fie, wrangling queen!
So near the emperor's palace dare you draw,
but friends,
Peace, lady! pause, or be more temperate:
No more my grief, in such a precious loss.
Prove false!
We two, that with so many thousand sighs
'Gainst foreign storms than any home-bred marriage.
And makes it fearful and degenerate;
It proves not so: their battles are at hand;
wait on her: so the maid that stood in the way for
Whose dreadful swords were never drawn in vain,
Proud Pole, I will, and scorn both him and thee.
Near! why then, another time I'll hear thee:
Come hither, crack-hemp.
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
Have been deceived; they swore you did.
There, take it, prince; and if my form lie there,
in the view of the shepherd: so that all the
whisper: with as little a web as this will I
From niggard nature fall, yet rich conceit
Nay, do not fright us with an angry look;
Our wooing doth not end like an old play;
We are blest that Rome is rid of him.
Lucius hath wrote already to the emperor
Hath ordain'd to an honourable end,
If thy revengeful heart cannot forgive,
That our garments, being, as they were, drenched in
Enter CASSIO
fain to go with a staff, but that my puissance holds
that I shall die, is true; but for thy love, by the
And our indentures tripartite are drawn;
A gallant prize? ha, cousin, is it not?
Nor I, nor any
Sweet bloods, I both may and will.
Come, let us go, and make thy father blind;
Which of you know Ford of this town?
Come, madam, come; I in all haste was sent.
And after shipwreck driven upon this shore.
If I be not by her fair influence
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Turk, to make eunuchs of.
Nor either cares for him.
Sticks me at heart. Sir, you have well deserved:
Receive in either by this dear encounter.
And, lords, towards Coventry bend we our course
What are you?
SCENE I. Athens. A hall in Timon's house.
A sickness caught of me, and yet I well!
Aside to GLOUCESTER
Make way to lay them by their brethren.
They love not poison that do poison need,
Grows strong and great in substance and in power.
Exit CARDINAL WOLSEY
Our eldest-born, speak first.
So, so, we draw together.
I ne'er had worse luck in my life in my 'O Lord,
All wanton as a child, skipping and vain,
Deceitful Warwick! it was thy device
No, misery makes sport to mock itself:
All our abilities, gifts, natures, shapes,
Concur together, severally entreat him.
Think it no more;
[Aside]  These be fine things, an if they be
Cut my lace, Charmian, come;
Than drink so much in one.
The moment is thy death. Away! by Jupiter,
I am fearful: wherefore frowns he thus?
Believe me, there is no such thing in me.
O grandsire, grandsire! even with all my heart
No remedy, but you will,--give me the office
Which we have noted in you to your kin,
The place which I have feasted, does it now,
What, will these hands ne'er be clean?--No more o'
Parted our fellowship--But, hark! a sail.
You should hear reason.
if she be mated with an equal husband?
Very gladly.
SCENE IV. Camp of the YORK in Anjou.
A stranger to thy thoughts.
For fear we wake her: softly, gentle Patience.
soldest him on Good-Friday last for a cup of Madeira
A monk, I tell you; a resolved villain,
Your uncle must not know but you are dead;
proceeding, it shall become him well; wherein if he
Graves only be men's works and death their gain!
Ay, marry, sweeting, if we could do that,
And be a thwart disnatured torment to her!
Thy father was a traitor to the crown.
I'ld let a parish of such Clotens' blood,
Which thou forget'st. This damn'd witch Sycorax,
Of my poor babe, according to thine oath,
What's he?
And take our friendly senators by the hands;
Exeunt
Peace, cousin Percy; you will make him mad.
Find little.
Speak, if you can: what are you?
me; I defied 'em still: when suddenly a file of
Shall blow each dust, each straw, each little rub,
She knew his love, lest she make sport at it.
The which if he can prove, a' pops me out
I shall see thee, ere I die, look pale with love.
Christian, that means to be saved by believing
O sweet England!
The nature of the sickness found, Ulysses,
His charters and his customary rights;
Implore her, in my voice, that she make friends
Didst thou at first, to flatter us withal,
Is he not honest?
Come, sit thee down upon this flowery bed,
First 'Prentice	Here, Peter, I drink to thee: and be not afraid.
That done, laugh well at me.
Thy very stones prate of my whereabout,
And treasure of my loins; then if I would
Aside
A blessed lottery to him.
Is he not able to discharge the money?
That you extol me thus?
Trow'st thou that e'er I'll look upon the world,
Hath for your love a great a pang of heart
More than thy fame and envy. Fix thy foot.
To dark dishonour's use thou shalt not have.
SCENE IV. The same.
Tears the supplication
Hanging and wiving goes by destiny.
An they have conspired together, I will not say you
By adding a tongue which I know will not lie.
And thereof came it that the man was mad.
Hearing you were retired, your friends fall'n off,
Exit
Counsel o' the war, but at his nurse's tears
Ho, Helicanus!
thankfully. I will piece out the comfort with what
Will not bear question; either say thou'lt do 't,
And, to sink in it, should you burden love;
Convey me Salisbury into his tent,
Deep clerks she dumbs; and with her needle composes
rule of nature. To speak on the part of virginity,
Is Fulvia's death.
And spread they shall be, to thy foul disgrace
The wall is high, and yet will I leap down:
Ay; 'tis an honester service than to meddle with thy
Exeunt
Where, ere we do repose us, we will write
My health and happy being at your court.
Have at you, then, affection's men at arms.
Hark, hark! I hear
How long continued, and what stock he springs of,
Calpurnia's cheek is pale; and Cicero
There are that dare; and I myself have ventured
The king with mighty and quick-raised power
The manner and the purpose of his treason;
Enter CELIA and ROSALIND
Of monstrous lust the due and just reward:
Upon what bargain do you give it me?
Look, sir, here comes the lady towards my cell.
By whom this great assembly is contrived,
I, sir? I never saw her till this time.
Diffusest honey-drops, refreshing showers,
Or shall we sparingly show you far off
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
For government, though high and low and lower,
I will attend my husband, be his nurse,
And tender me, forsooth, affection,
Full fifteen earls and fifteen hundred knights,
And publish it that she is dead indeed;
When many times the captive Grecian falls,
Will make what's homely savoury: weariness
Ah, good my liege, I pray thee, pardon me!
Against my lady's kingdom: 'tis enough
Of senators, of praetors, common suitors,
They shall be married to-morrow, and I will bid the
So, master mayor: these gates must not be shut
Wast shot at with fair eyes, to be the mark
that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of
Prosper this realm, keep it from civil broils,
Hector will challenge him.
gentleman, Lord Lucullus, entreats your company
A mellifluous voice, as I am true knight.
Which never shall be found--you did suspect
State holy or unhallow'd, what of that?
Thou hast no weapon, and perforce must suffer.
His semblable, yea, himself, Timon disdains:
That are your prisoners,--
SCENE V. A hall in Capulet's house.
Well;
and Gratii, two hundred and fifty each; mine own
First, you know Caius Marcius is chief enemy to the people.
on't: this shall end without the perdition of souls.
My Nan shall be the queen of all the fairies,
Art thou gone so? I do but stay behind
He who the sword of heaven will bear
All men's faces are true, whatsome'er their hands are.
With other virtues, which I'll keep from boast:
end.
Ah, soldier!
have missingly noted, he is of late much retired
Not seldom, nor no slight cheques, when I have
Yet, to supply the ripe wants of my friend,
It is much that the Moor should be more than reason:
Come, you and I will thither presently;
Play something like the murder of my father
What touches us ourself shall be last served.
duck, I'll be sworn.
And take upon's the mystery of things,
Made to run even upon even ground,
of fourteen; I have known thee already.
That outward courtesies would fain proclaim
Your highness, lately sending into France,
And bring him to our eye.
Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.
Resolved. resolved.
I have look'd on thousands, who have sped the better
And I will stand the hazard of the die:
The hearts of all that he did angle for;
'Tis one of the best discretions of a 'oman as ever
Give me thy sword. A peasant stand up thus!
change for youth: when she is sated with his body,
little intoxicates in his prains, did, in his ales and
host of de Jarteer to measure our weapon. By gar, I
How now! what news from her?
Save these in bonds: let them be joyful too,
But mine it will, that no exploit have done:
Shuts SIMPLE in the closet
Not so, but as we change our courtesies.
My Desdemona must I leave to thee:
O, that thou wert not, poor distressed soul!
You soothed not, therefore hurt not: but
O, peace! the friar is come.
Good sooth, it show'd well in you: do so now:
No, my lord.
Hang'd in the frowning wrinkle of her brow!
'His garment!'
Bid him shed tears, as being overjoy'd
Lest he should help his father.
Sennet. Exeunt CAESAR and all his Train, but CASCA
I could interpret between you and your love, if I
Exit
With profitable labour, to his grave:
I have access my own love to prefer:
But he already is too insolent;
You take from me a great part of myself;
The winds grow high; so do your stomachs, lords.
manner of your garments well.
No, faith, proud mistress, hope not after it:
You lie.
Alas, she hath from France too long been chased,
I'll swear upon that bottle to be thy true subject;
O, no, my dream was lengthen'd after life;
A little, by your favour.
Since you do take it, love, so much at heart.
Now, if you have a station in the file,
Minime, honest master; or rather, master, no.
And part the numbers.
[To IMOGEN]	Brother, stay here
I must be answer'd. Dost thou hear, Camillo,
Why, then the devil give him good of it!
I will follow you.
They pitched in the ground confusedly,
And all the wealthy kingdoms of the west,
Excursions. Enter RICHARD and CLIFFORD
She never yet was foolish that was fair;
Any thing in or out of our demands,
But no man's virtue nor sufficiency
will not hurt you. Come on; to't.
When every case in law is right;
And to that place the sharp Athenian law
By heaven, lady, you shall have no cause
That needs must light on this ingratitude.
he come; for, sure, the man is tainted in's wits.
Measure for measure must be answered.
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thrall'd
Why stands he so perplex'd?
Peace, ho! no outrage: peace!
if it were going to bucking: or--it is whiting-time
Cut me to pieces with thy keen conceit;
Make those that do offend you suffer too.
Than I have here proclaim'd thee.
And, Montague, come you this afternoon,
Therefore depart and leave him here with me.
my son Coriolanus: guess, but by my entertainment
Cressid is mine, tied with the bonds of heaven:
Get thee to a nunnery: why wouldst thou be a
My very heart at root.
Who seem'd my good protector; and, being here,
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
Enter OTHELLO, LODOVICO, DESDEMONA, EMILIA and Attendants
By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found
For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dog,
The skilful shepherd peel'd me certain wands,
By good Euriphile, our mother.
Sir, spare your threats:
I am one, my liege,
to extend him; be it but to fortify her judgment,
Of general assault.
For the enfreed Antenor, the fair Cressid:
Besides, you know, it draws something near to the
A very scurvy fellow.
Ha! I'll tell thee what;
are your parts: and I am to entreat you, request
Neither.
paper shortly: what need these feasts, pomps and
And melt ere they molest! Here lies your brother,
our strange sights: he must know 'tis none of your
down. They say this Angelo was not made by man and
The next degree is England's royal throne;
Hath not old custom made this life more sweet
So far forth as herself might be her chooser,
Without much shame retold or spoken of.
He reputes me a cannon; and the bullet, that's he:
Down with the Capulets! down with the Montagues!
the emperor from you.
We left them all at home: but we are soldiers;
So I, to find a mother and a brother,
Enter RICHARD, EDWARD, and MONTAGUE
Of gracious order, late come from the See
Will not conclude their plotted tragedy.
great wager on your head: sir, this is the matter,--
Enter OTHELLO and IAGO
The moon shines bright: in such a night as this,
As bright Apollo's lute, strung with his hair:
The routed fly: so thy grand captain Antony
My noble girls! Ah, women, women, look,
To grudge my pleasures, to cut off my train,
To an exploit, now ripe in my device,
Inhabits in the finest wits of all.
Which had you rather, that the most just law
For in the shade of death I shall find joy;
Lives my sweet son?
Your highness to assign our trial day.
there is such odds in the man. In pity of the
And let your mind be coupled with your words.
I could make as true a boast as that, if I had a sow
let to know it is.
Apollo, Pallas, Jove, or Mercury,
No, do not.
She is your treasure, she must have a husband;
I dare my life lay down and will do't, sir,
That I should snarl and bite and play the dog.
And for achievement offer us his ransom.
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
But at fourscore it is too late a week:
What fates impose, that men must needs abide;
As two spent swimmers, that do cling together
He bores me with some trick: he's gone to the king;
Methinks you prescribe to yourself very preposterously.
My lord.
Sir Robert might have eat his part in me
the most comparative, rascalliest, sweet young
According to my bond; nor more nor less.
Whose rocky shore beats back the envious siege
Return the precedent to these lords again;
A thousand oaths, an ocean of his tears
These two have 'ticed me hither to this place:
Our expectation that it would be thus
She, whom the spital-house and ulcerous sores
Paris and Troilus, you have both said well,
I cannot be offended with my trade. Please you to name it.
Caesar hath hang'd him. Canidius and the rest
I have been studying how I may compare
And it grows fouler.
When the sun shines let foolish gnats make sport,
Enter TITUS LARTIUS, with his power, from the pursuit
Look, how the black slave smiles upon the father,
As little as a crow, or less, ere left
Stay for an answer to your embassy,
Howsoever you have been his liar, as you say you
I hope well of to-morrow; and will lead you
Above this world; adding thereto moreover
We'll betray him finely.
Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
same piece
Enter Hostess and SLY
of a saint and the complexion of a devil, I had
Their power, I think, is thirty thousand strong:
Art thou of blood and honour?
What say'st thou, ha?
Even to my full of view.
When Hector's grandsire suck'd: he is old now;
Enter MARK ANTONY and OCTAVIA
I stand accountant for as great a sin,
by my villany, which did confirm any slander that
Madam Silvia! Madam Silvia!
Keep me in temper: I would not be mad!
[Aside]             To be sure of that,
And hang their heads with sorrow: good grows with her:
And shall I now give o'er the yielded set?
That carries no impression like the dam.
And mount her pitch, whom thou in triumph long
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.
would take her with all faults, and money enough.
Whether they live or die.
Yet not so wealthy as an English yeoman.
And though that nature with a beauteous wall
That England was defamed by tyranny.
As ever in ambitious strength I did
Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace,
Be he unto me! this do I beg of God,
Of noble having and of royal hope,
Within this hour I was his bondman sir,
To hold my very course. Prepare for dinner.
questions?
My absence doth neglect no great designs,
You need not fear it, sir:
And therewithal the best; or let her beauty
And for one blast of thy minikin mouth,
gentleman; whom I commend to you as a noble friend
Did Claribel her husband find at Tunis,
Ay, my good lord.
Now help, or woe betide thee evermore!
To her that is not here, nor doth not hear.
This is not strange, Ulysses.
That neither in our hearts nor outward eyes
Make it more like a tavern or a brothel
Mortality and mercy in Vienna
I should make very forges of my cheeks,
March. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, PRINCE EDWARD, SOMERSET, OXFORD, and soldiers
Dukes, earls, lords, gentlemen; indeed, of all.
Is not my teeming date drunk up with time?
the request be fifty talents.
Should sunder such sweet friends. Here in her hairs
Send to me in the morning and I'll send it:
Three times to-day my foot-cloth horse did stumble,
We will discharge our duty.
Swallows have built
Who hast not in thy brows an eye discerning
bencher in the Capitol.
Are all thy conquests, glories, triumphs, spoils,
Exit
teach her to know my meaning: for maids, well
[To MARINA]  Pray you, come hither awhile. You
question asked him by any of the senators, but they
Of this poor infant, this fresh-new sea-farer,
Gentle my liege,--
She could have run and waddled all about;
Perforce, against all cheques, rebukes and manners,
Then meet and join. Jove's lightnings, the precursors
That Margaret shall be queen, and none but she.
Now, pray, sir, get you gone:
Exit
My mind will never grant what I perceive
That never mean to part.
Upon the maiden virtue of the crown.
good enough.
your servant.
Starve-lackey the rapier and dagger man, and young
Advertising and holy to your business,
the lunatic.
God and good angel fight on Richmond's side;
My lord, I do beseech you, pardon me;
Two.
Unfurnish'd of her well-beseeming troop?
Though full of our displeasure, yet we free thee
To slay your sovereign and destroy the realm.
Yet would you say ye were beaten out of door;
But by your voices, will not so permit me;
The other down, unseen and full of water:
Winter garments must be lined,
Slept in his face and render'd such aspect
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
They do me wrong, and I will not endure it:
had been thoroughly moved, you should have heard him
To the sea-monster: I stand for sacrifice
But this effusion of such manly drops,
I will conclude to hate her, nay, indeed,
That we do make our entrance several ways;
Fairest Cordelia, that art most rich, being poor;
Courageous Bedford, let us now persuade you.
The one has my pity; not a jot the other,
Speaks to atone you.
It shall be with such strict and severe covenants
My lord,
Too late comes rescue: he is ta'en or slain;
Tush! I may as well say the fool's the fool. But
Till I have learned thy language; for thy tongue
And let it not displease thee, good Bianca,
I stand on fire:
The moon of Rome, chaste as the icicle
My wife, sir, whom I detest before heaven and your honour,--
Yes;
By her fine foot, straight leg and quivering thigh
That light we see is burning in my hall.
Ay, boy, grow ye so brave?
But, like a thrifty goddess, she determines
Take vantage, heavy eyes, not to behold
Stand by our Ajax: as you and Lord AEneas
'Tis bitter.
Do't, and to bed then.
me other than Lord Mortimer.
Of valiant Shirley, Stafford, Blunt, are in my arms:
And time to speak it in: you rub the sore,
Had it our name, the value of one ten,
he that died o' Wednesday. Doth he feel it? no.
Dost thou think so, spirit?
am I; go to then, there's sympathy: you are merry,
O monstrous act!
Made me to blame in memory.
sufferance is a gain to them Let us revenge this with
Re-enter JULIET, above
Or did it from his teeth.
Or sound so base a parle, my teeth shall tear
by your father.
Could never go so slow: I have heard of
Which industry and courage might have saved?
No, if rightly taken, halter.
Than that which hath no foil to set it off.
Loud alarum
Dear sir, of force I must attempt you further:
A noise within
Sir, I did never win of you before.
the trick of singularity: she thus advises thee
O, sir, she makes no doubt of that.
Nor doth he dedicate one jot of colour
But she may learn; happier than this,
To entertain my vows of thanks and praise!
Prettily, methought, did play the orator.
I must serve him so too, tell him of an intent
And instantly return with me again,
They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in
'Glamis hath murder'd sleep, and therefore Cawdor
Confound and swallow navigation up;
As beasts and birds and fishes.
To be thy lord and master: seek the king;
mightily misplaced, and the bountiful blind woman
Who slew to-day a righteous gentleman
Deliver with more openness your answers
Re-enter DESDEMONA and EMILIA
To whom I am a neighbour and near bred.
What, didst thou offer her this from me?
Well, go thy way: thou shalt not from this grove
A rout, confusion thick; forthwith they fly
That it alone is high fantastical.
I thank thee, Jew, for teaching me that word.
I cry you mercy, then:
The noblest ta'en.
Are wreck'd three nights ago on Goodwin Sands.
Acknowledge thee their patron; and come freely
art changed for Antenor: thou must to thy father,
I leave an arrant knave with your worship; which I
With cheerful semblance and sweet majesty;
O, but impatience waiteth on true sorrow.
Of our design. He bears himself more proudlier,
Great King of England and my gracious lord,
Too ceremonious and traditional
In evil mixture to disorder wander,
This deserves death.
O,--vocativo, O.
Tearing off his clothes
Speak, hands for me!
Thou didst usurp my place, and dost thou not
'Tis much when sceptres are in children's hands;
Our business valued, some twelve days hence
As peace should stiff her wheaten garland wear
My Lord of Hereford, my message is to you.
Choler!
What's this but libelling against the senate,
That Alexander Iden, an esquire of Kent,
The mightiest space in fortune nature brings
I am a gentleman, sir, and my name is Conrade.
Many can brook the weather that love not the wind.
That his chief followers lodge in towns about him,
us; not to have us thrive in our mystery.
For I will throw my glove to Death himself,
And Robin shall restore amends.
array. Tom's a-cold.
A heavy sentence, my most sovereign liege,
Which too untimely here did scorn the earth.
What, sir?
You are married?
And comfort me with cold. I do not ask you much,
How now! what means death in this rude assault?
Lies mocking our designs: with him Patroclus
And, which is worse, all you have done
A good old man, sir; he will be talking: as they
And lasting fealty to the new-made king.
A pair so famous. High events as these
Exit
And therefore instantly this prince must die:
'Thou shalt not steal'?
It is in mine authority to command
Is often left unloved; we should have met you
True, so I am.
a soldier.
Why do you make us love your goodly gifts,
I promised your presence and the chain;
But is not this braver? Let them kiss one another,
I must to England; you know that?
And by the way let us recount our dreams.
The imperial metal, circling now thy brow,
Blows you to Padua here from old Verona?
Whose settled visage and deliberate word
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke;
A precious thing: I had it from the queen.
These fishers tell the infirmities of men;
Dismiss my soldiers, or capitulate
Mistress, dispatch you with your safest haste
And come some other time to know our mind.
your honour
Perforce be their acquaintance. These exactions,
Than whom no mortal so magnificent!
O monstrous! O strange! we are haunted. Pray,
Upon condition Publius shall not live,
Which way thou travellest: if along with us,
him.
senseless and fit man for the constable of the
Is, like a blasted sapling, wither'd up:
Help, help! Call help.
Gloucester's eye!
Charles Duke of Orleans, nephew to the king;
Which at the first are scarce found to distaste,
By your leave, sir,--
but he'll be meet with you, I doubt it not.
The very devils cannot plague them better.
And worth it, with addition! But, fair soul,
She hung about my neck; and kiss on kiss
Which end o' the beam should bow. We have lost your
Make yourselves scabs?
My grave is like to be my wedding bed.
Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
You are undone, captain, all but your scarf; that
He is a man, and, Clifford, cope with him.
may, but at the length truth will out.
Yet heavens are just, and time suppresseth wrongs.
Command upon me; to the which my duties
I do desire no more.
he's a very fool and a prodigal.
And birds sit brooding in the snow
A thing not in his power to bring to pass,
But so it is, my haste doth call me hence,
My hand cut off and made a merry jest;
differences, of very soft society and great showing:
Led you to Duncan. O, these flaws and starts,
ANTIPHOLUS
O my good lord,
I am the daughter to King Pericles,
A soldier to thy purpose.
And down goes all before them. Still be kind,
Throw physic to the dogs; I'll none of it.
Only, my friend, I yet am unprovided
And so must I, sir: we have appointed to dine with
Renowned duke, vouchsafe to take the pains
The people's magistrates.
When you are better temper'd to attend.
Last night, I hear, they lay at Northampton;
Item, Anchovies and sack after supper, 2s. 6d.
Eastcheap. The Boar's-Head Tavern.
Any thing on him; for he hath a witchcraft
Trumpets sound. Exeunt
And that's far worse than none; better have none
Go, take their bodies hence.
Good Lord, how bright and goodly shines the moon!
'Better a witty fool, than a foolish wit.'
To fight with Talbot: as he march'd along,
Even she; Leonato's Hero, your Hero, every man's Hero:
What secret hath held you here, that you followed
your eyes as other women do.
And, by my fall, the conquest to my foe.
That labour may you save: see where he comes.
As you yourself have forged against yourself
A true man or a thief that gallops so?
O Setebos, these be brave spirits indeed!
Nay, my good lord, let me o'errule you now:
'Tybalt is dead, and Romeo--banished;'
Fortune brings in some boats that are not steer'd.
O how that name befits my composition!
Have pluck'd my nipple from his boneless gums,
Into this place, 'twere pity on my life.
Immediately provided in that case.
And were our father and this son like him,
man i' the moon?
At last, with easy roads, he came to Leicester,
Strangle such thoughts as these with any thing
Of my alleged reasons, drive this forward:
Who did strike out the light?
The better to beguile. This is for all:
They crave to be demanded. Who is this
Thy knower, Patroclus: then tell me, Patroclus,
How smooth and even they do bear themselves!
With any size of words.
Have uncheque'd theft. Love not yourselves: away,
And world's exile is death: then banished,
Like enough you do.
Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
Thy name?
Hath kept with thy remembrance.
Go, clear thy c rystals. Yoke-fellows in arms,
The trembling lamb environed with wolves.
Pisanio have mapped it truly. How fit his garments
So graze as you find pasture.
Come, come, enter my tent.
And here are to be answer'd. Tell me, my daughters,--
The which hath fire in darkness, none in light:
To monstrous quality,--why, you shall find
Until this instant. Take a trumpet, herald;
bounty to sing happiness to him. I will tell you a
Be large in mirth; anon we'll drink a measure
If I achieve not this young modest girl.
Perge, good Master Holofernes, perge; so it shall
It is no act of common passage, but
Fool!
Hath a great scene: the image of the jest
Give me thy hand,
Armed, brother!
Re-enter CAESAR and his Train
Concerning you.
Alarum and retreat. Enter CADE and all his rabblement
Nay, you may think my love was crafty love
So had you need:
Fool, fool, fool, I say!
Exeunt
So sick I am not, yet I am not well;
The seat of Gaunt, dukedom of Lancaster:
What shall be said to thee?
apparel and to cry like a woman; but I must comfort
Be thereat glean'd, for all the sun sees or
And bow this feeble ruin to the earth:
Like aqua-vitae with a midwife.
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
The fabric of his folly, whose foundation
In election for the Roman empery,
That you in pity may dissolve to dew,
Out, damned spot! out, I say!--One: two: why,
Lend me thy hand, and I will give thee mine.
And when I start, the envious people laugh
Are you call'd forth from out a world of men
Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats and pease;
That touches Caesar nearer: read it, great Caesar.
purgation. I have trod a measure; I have flattered
He means, my lord, that we are too remiss;
Be brief in it, to the castle; for my writ
Enter a Servant
willingly, despise profit where you have most gain.
Can stead the quest. At last from Tyre,
'My lady's father'! my lord's knave: your
Which they themselves not feel; but, tasting it,
for a great praise: only this commendation I can
Speak, for my heart is full.
And blazoning our injustice every where?
From thee, even from thy virtue!
DON
Duchess of Norfolk, and Lady Marquess Dorset: will
This is no answer, thou unfeeling man,
My lord, I did;
holily in their beds.
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
In Normandy, saw I this Longaville:
Come come, open the matter in brief: what said she?
And so may you; for a light heart lives long.
gentleman or a yeoman?
Bushy and Green, I will not vex your souls--
Than when it was a-doing.
Who would believe that there were mountaineers
Shall in these confines with a monarch's voice
If we shadows have offended,
Groan so in perpetuity than be cured
Startles mine eyes, and makes me more amazed
come; make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio, tell
Exit
'Twould prove the verity of certain words
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
You have too much, good lady; but to know
As silver-voiced; her eyes as jewel-like
And there will I be with him. So, farewell.
Doth my name lodge? tell me, that I may sack
In spring time,  and c.
An earl I am, and Suffolk am I call'd.
To have him see me woman'd.
I'll undertake 't:
get an eye-wink of her: I had myself twenty angels
Or hollowly put on.
There rest.
To pay the petty debt twenty times over:
And merry larks are ploughmen's clocks,
Instructed by the antiquary times,
Begin it with weak straws: what trash is Rome,
Have I here touch'd Sicilia and from him
Is in his brain: he bites his lip, and starts;
let them coin his nose, let them coin his cheeks:
A good man's fortune may grow out at heels:
To your proceedings? do not seek to stuff
As he could make me with this eye or ear
will amend: for give the dry fool drink, then is
blows; and withal so doubtfully that I could scarce
Watch thou and wake when others be asleep,
If she dares trust me with her little babe,
King Richard Coeur-de-lion was thy father:
What's he that now is going out of door?
Master's-Mate	And so much shall you give, or off goes yours.
But that myself should be the root and father
Nor tell the world Antiochus doth sin
Farewell.
How can it be?
Thou art more deep damn'd than Prince Lucifer:
[Reads]  'The battle with the Centaurs, to be sung
done this day. I have paid Percy, I have made him sure.
Exeunt Hostess, FRANCIS, and BARDOLPH
How will this fadge? my master loves her dearly;
make you to-day a squire of low degree. I pray you,
Horatio, these three years I have taken a note of
See me in talk with thee.
We may effect this business yet ere day.
Stand, stand! We have the advantage of the ground;
Titus, thou shalt obtain and ask the empery.
Hath she made her affection known to Benedick?
In our own proper entrails.
I will acquit you.
As for the Duke of York, this late complaint
Nor in thine, lord.
shotten herring. There live not three good men
Like offices of pity. Sir, be prosperous
Hark, Polydore, it sounds! But what occasion
Nay, it makes nothing, sir.
Bow, stubborn knees; and, heart with strings of steel,
Sit.
And grieve to hear't.
of whoremaster man, to lay his goatish
Is much more general than these lines import.
Alas, he speaks but for his friend.
These three,
Tripp'd me behind; being down, insulted, rail'd,
You, sir! why, what are you?
heavenly compulsion; knaves, thieves, and
Between her heart and lips: she render'd life,
Enter Page
Until a power be raised to put them down.
Forgot you! no, sir: I could not forget you, for I
In us, that are our own great deputy
There was excellent command,--to charge in with our
with thy tale.
not?
ALONSO sleeps. Exit ARIEL
his cowardship, ask Fabian.
Enter MARK ANTONY and EROS
Let him be whipt and hang'd.
brazier by his face, for, o' my conscience, twenty
To free us from his father's wrathful curse,
To drink to these fair ladies, and a measure
We learn no other but the confident tyrant
Enter DUKE SOLINUS, attended; AEGEON bareheaded; with the Headsman and other Officers
Thy mind to her is now as low as were
Let come what comes; only I'll be revenged
The weary way hath made you melancholy.
How he upbraids Iago, that he made him
Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense,
A second night of such sweet shortness which
Were thy commixtion Greek and Trojan so
SCENE II. The same. The Presence chamber.
But here's a vengeful sword, rusted with ease,
your heart: but, good Kate, mock me mercifully; the
Beshrew me, but you have a quick wit.
To the syllable.
Bedlam, have done.
To die upon the hand I love so well.
Hath given them heart and courage to proceed:
cast thy humble slough and appear fresh. Be
My Lord of Hereford here, whom you call king,
Therefore, to the war!
Exit Herald
was this directed to you?
[To KING RICHARD III]
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Nor I, by Pluto: but that that likes not you pleases me best.
Of Pisa, sir; son to Vincentio.
Her portion equal his.
Guard it, I pray thee, with a lurking adder
Come, then, let's go fight with them; but first, go
On serious business, craving quick dispatch,
Nay, certainly, there is no truth in him.
That he will not. 'Tis your fault, 'tis your fault;
What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails,
And I had mine!
I'll join with black despair against my soul,
like Falstaff, but a Corinthian, a lad of mettle, a
Commend me bountifully to his good lordship; and I
Stay not to answer me, but get thee gone:
If case some one of you would fly from us,
Have you inform'd them sithence?
To weep 'twixt clock and clock? if sleep
With half that face would he have all my land:
unto you again, you are a shallow cowardly hind, and
You nickname virtue; vice you should have spoke;
hurt not. My lord, for your many courtesies I thank
Even on the pith of Life. Where is he gone?
'Tis breath thou lack'st, and that breath wilt thou lose.
Can be but brief; for I have made him know
Myself against the level of mine aim;
But here's a villain that would face me down
I have, Antiochus, and, with a soul
Admirable: how this grace
To incur a private cheque. When shall he come?
As you, my lord, or any Scot that this day lives:
Enter KENT and a Gentleman
From twelve to seventy, and pouring war
Stand not amazed; here is no remedy:
De hand. Et les doigts?
Blow, villain, till thy sphered bias cheek
Great marshal to Henry the Sixth
Exit
Hadst thou been meek, our title still had slept;
How happy some o'er other some can be!
If ever love had interest in his liver,
And the blots of Nature's hand
Why, sir, say if you had,
Take on with me and ne'er be satisfied!
This is the place; there, where the torch doth burn.
She would not hold out enemy for ever,
My love, her mistress, is a gracious moon;
And thou most reverend for thy stretch'd-out life
Than that of painted pomp? Are not these woods
If the man be a bachelor, sir, I can; but if he be a
And so the Earl of Armagnac may do,
My Lord of Warwick, here is--praised be God for it!
Two nights together had these gentlemen,
the Welshman with my cheese, an Irishman with my
Master Fenton, talk not to me; my mind is heavy: I
A little herd of England's timorous deer,
Which they upon the adverse party want.
Giving myself a voluntary wound
The tribune and his nephews kneel for grace;
Well; keep good quarter and good care to-night:
Enter Old Lady, LOVELL following
I hope my noble lord esteems me honest.
No foot shall stir.
Your care is gain of care, by new care won:
I will go tell him of fair Hermia's flight:
What shall be done? he will not hear, till feel:
With bur-docks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo-flowers,
Motion and breath left out.
Without a monument!--bring thee all this;
cheese, Nestor, and that same dog-fox, Ulysses, is
Swear priests and cowards and men cautelous,
Go ply thy needle; meddle not with her.
Now I but chide; but I should use thee worse,
hath been since an ape-bearer; then a
Certainly
Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle,
I know I love in vain, strive against hope;
Spread further.
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
He did, my lord, four days ere I set forth;
And, by the grace of God and this mine arm,
And if thou canst awake by four o' the clock,
wouldst make an absolute courtier; and the firm
And so was mine, my lord.
Go put on thy defences.
Servile to all the skyey influences,
pleasure but in passion, not in words only, but in
Shall all be done by the rule. Good night, dear lady.
The thrifty hire I saved under your father,
--with your sun-beamed eyes--
While proud ambitious Edward Duke of York
but duteous, and true preferment shall tender itself
at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave us
Walter,--
Say but the word, and I will be his priest.
My careless father fondly gave away'?
And not till then.
Here's a skull now; this skull has lain in the earth
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
To have found a safe redress; but now grow fearful,
Thou art the issue of my dear offence,
The devil speed him! no man's pie is freed
Unless another,
and I came no sooner into the dining-chamber but he
My husband bids me; now I will unmask.
In profiting by them. Nay, call us ten times frail;
And we'll strive to please you every day.
More than pertains to feats of broil and battle,
Are made already mothers: by my count,
the shoulder, and called Adam.
I, with blowing the fire, shall warm myself; for,
The honourable board of council out,
Why, then I see
But that your royalty
And, live we how we can, yet die we must.
A falcon, towering in her pride of place,
He dreams: I know they are in Rome together,
I therefore apprehend and do attach thee
SCENE I:
man, and signifies love.
Turn all to the best! These proclamations,
His cupbearer,--whom I from meaner form
Exit
To wring the widow from her custom'd right,
Thou, like an exorcist, hast conjured up
There did he pause: but let me tell the world,
How fares the king and's followers?
I would you had been by the ship side, to have
Enter the Ghost of BUCKINGHAM
That with your strange encounter much amazed me,
O heavy deed!
wisest. He shall taste of my bottle: if he have
In these confusions. Heaven and yourself
Good captain, will you give me a copy of the sonnet
There is a thousand Hectors in the field:
house to put his head in? such may rail against
Stabs him
There shalt thou know thy charge; and there receive
become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
rather be such a man as Troilus than Agamemnon and
Dost thou look up?
heir-apparent, could the world pick thee out three
Because, forsooth, the king of Scots is crown'd.
Or any groat I hoarded to my use,
Or like an overcharged gun, recoil,
Despite his nice fence and his active practise,
To ANGELO
Lest your displeasure should enlarge itself
My most dear lord!
found it, and there an end.
O, but they say the tongues of dying men
No, Plantagenet,
But to support him after. Fare you well.
Exeunt
These three have robb'd me; and this demi-devil--
matter: an old man, sir, and his wits are not so
This article, my liege, yourself must break;
dishonour we had in the loss of that drum; but it is
In states unborn and accents yet unknown!
A mother to the birth of three? Ne'er mother
Men's flesh preserved so whole do seldom win.
Home art gone, and ta'en thy wages:
For others say thou dost deserve, and I
The pleasures such a beauty brings with it;
Who now are here, taking their leaves of me,
With meekness and humility; but your heart
You advise me well.
O, look! methinks I see my cousin's ghost
Your knees to me? to your corrected son?
To EDGAR and KENT
Faults proper to himself: if he had so offended,
O heavens! 'be true' again!
But the two rings.
If once they join in trial. Tell your nephew,
For of joy, being altogether wanting,
Whisper the spirits of thine enemies
Which, but for him that had your husband's ring,
Thunder
Nay, but you part in anger.
And when the morning sun shall raise his car
By mine honesty,
straggling soldiers with great quantity: 'tis said
You see, her eyes are open.
I find myself a traitor with the rest;
I will look further into't. But where's my fool? I
Exit
ANTIPHOLUS
Let it come, i' faith, and I'll pledge you all; and
But still the house-affairs would draw her thence:
In memory of her when she is dead,
Blow me about in winds! roast me in sulphur!
I warrant thee; if I do not act it, hiss me.
maid! where's my cousin Cressid?
SCENE II. France. Before Orleans.
Enter LAFEU and BERTRAM
To part with unhack'd edges, and bear back
Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.
Of all our fortunes.
The sun doth gild our armour; up, my lords!
Why, madam, so, no doubt, he is.
Citizens steal away. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
And would, as I shall pity, I could help!
O Lord, sir, it were pity you should get your living
Enter a Post
Farewell, faint-hearted and degenerate king,
Come, my lord.
Farewell, great chief. Shall I strike now?
Had I a sister were a grace, or a daughter a goddess,
I'll take it as a peril to my soul,
'Good friend,' quoth he,
Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl,
And dallies with the wind and scorns the sun.
Name them, my lord, let's know them.
Till this advantage, this vile-drawing bias,
And thought they Margaret was Hero?
[Within]  Who's there? what, ho!
And hold your hands in benediction o'er me:
And wilt encounter with my wrath, say so;
Rage must be withstood:
For these two hours, Rosalind, I will leave thee.
Hold, take my ring.
I' the parts of France, till term of eighteen months
And, daughter, yours.
As his wise mother wrought in his behalf,
To your high presence.
Which harm within itself so heinous is
Unvenerable be thy hands, if thou
Fled from her wish and yet said 'Now I may,'
Who heard me to deny it or forswear it?
a plague upon it when thieves cannot be true one to another!
In her chamber, making a sermon of continency to her;
Be moderate; allay thy ecstasy,
Thou mayst co-join with something; and thou dost,
I'll send for you anon. Sir, I obey the mandate,
SCENE V. Alexandria. MARK ANTONY's camp.
Who cover faults, at last shame them derides.
Were it not good your grace could fly to heaven?
But where thou art not known, why, there they show
You drew your sword upon me without cause;
Let's want no discipline, make no delay,
And so should you.
Now fear I this will give it start again;
When I have said, cry 'woe!' the queen, the queen,
Iago set him on.
Exeunt
shall not a maid be married, but she shall pay to me
Enter FORD
Exit
Turn on the bloody hounds with heads of steel
Whose roof's as low as ours! Stoop, boys; this gate
I talk of that, that know it.
I'll tell you in your ear.
O sweetest, fairest lily!
He did receive his letters, and is coming;
thou learn a prayer without book. Thou canst strike,
All dues be render'd to their owners: now,
Is by a newer object quite forgotten.
properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
He seems to be the more noble in being fantastical:
Exit
I know, ere they will have me go to ward,
such difference betwixt their two estates; Love no
to such a canary. Yet there has been knights, and
Iago, my reputation!
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Enter VARRIUS
Now shall I see thy love: what motive may
But the plain devil and dissembling looks,
Ay, to the proof; as mountains are for winds,
The more I love, the more he hateth me.
Exeunt QUEEN and Ladies
So fast they follow; your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
The noble Percy slain, and all his men
I must be laugh'd at,
Thy murderous falchion smoking in his blood;
O'erbearing interruption, spite of France?
Kindly! Sir, I pray, let me ha't: I have wounds to
cap. By my troth, I am sick.
He that has and a little tiny wit--
The motto, 'In hac spe vivo.'
Who goes there?
The voice of Cassio: Iago keeps his word.
What say'st thou, man? hast thou as yet conferr'd
Not worth my thinking. How now, poet!
All sanctimonious ceremonies may
lamp of her and run from her by her own light. I
I' the privy chamber?
O, farewell, honest soldier:
As I before unparted to your worship,
Satan, avoid! I charge thee, tempt me not.
True;
For whom, and not for Tybalt, Juliet pined.
Which his aspiring rider seem'd to know,
and a traitor.
I think you have
won me: 'tis but one cast away, and so, come,
him accordingly, as you value your trust--
If fortune be not ours to-day, it is
It were a shame to call her back again
They vex me past my patience! Pray you, pass on:
Even to Cato's wish, not fierce and terrible
'His eyes do show his days are almost done.'
Here, sweet lord, at your service.
I come to lose my arm, or win my sleeve.
Our sister's man is certainly miscarried.
if it were at liberty, 'twould, sure, southward.
She is too big, I hope, for me to compass.
I, by attorney, bless thee from thy mother
I'll warrant they'll have him publicly shamed: and
At length, another ship had seized on us;
But to recover of us, by strong hand
Experience is by industry achieved
Re-enter MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
There is a gentleman that serves the count
It would become me
a fair pair of heels and run from it?
When he intendeth to become the field:
Being on shore, honouring of Neptune's triumphs,
Is it this, sir?
Imp out our drooping country's broken wing,
Exeunt
And you shall be satisfied.
And cannot live but to thy shame, unless
Ay, like a black dog, as the saying is.
Making it momentany as a sound,
Now for the bare-pick'd bone of majesty
Speak like a true knight, so defend thee heaven!
Be of comfort;
Passion as they, be kindlier moved than thou art?
merry host hath had the measuring of their weapons;
That aged ears play truant at his tales
A golden mesh to entrap the hearts of men,
Thy mother felt more than a mother's pain,
The seas and winds, old wranglers, took a truce
Do thee all rights of service.
Even at my gates, with ranks of foreign powers:
Who, Thersites?
Must you be therefore proud and pitiless?
Is that his answer?
Speak to my gossip Venus one fair word,
When shall you see me write a thing in rhyme?
His lands to me, and took it on his death
The life, the right and truth of all this realm
And seek their ruin that usurp'd our right?
and blood loves my flesh and blood; he that loves my
To underprop this action? Is't not I
Have you forgot all sense of place and duty?
yours, then yours is France and you are mine.
Signior Baptista, you are happily met.
Your majesty loads our house: for those of old,
Hector was gone, but Helen was not up.
Because that now it lies you on to speak
We shall, my liege.
fancies' pricked in't for a feather: a monster, a
The Prince of Wales, Lord John of Lancaster,
Even in the instant of repair and health,
Go give him courteous conduct to this place.
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
Again!
Come hither, neighbour Seacole. God hath blessed
And when my knightly stomach is sufficed,
Hath been my kinsman! O sweet Juliet,
The Volsces whom you serve, you might condemn us,
By this brave duke came early to his grave:
On both sides more respect.
Before you punish him, where he heard this,
I am thy king, and thou a false-heart traitor.
Not half so old as that. I'll write against them,
That pitiful rumour may report my flight,
I remember you, sir, by the sound of your voice: I
king's company.
But He, that hath the steerage of my course,
We do require them of you, so to use them
Repair to the senate-house.
Have done thy charm, thou hateful wither'd hag!
Whate'er you be, I am obedient.
My bed was ever to thy son as true
My lords, if not for any parts in him--
I like it never the better for that. Does he lie at
Honour is cudgelled. Well, bawd I'll turn,
That longing have been sick for, ere I'ld yield
Of the ranged empire fall! Here is my space.
Enter ISABELLA
Judas I am,--
We breathed our counsel: but it pleased your highness
To make a bloody supper in the Tower.
Horns within. Enter KING LEAR, Knights, and Attendants
Who was the thane lives yet;
Up to his pleasure, ransomless and free:
Begone, I say,
Heaven guide him to thy husband's cudgel, and the
And beat our watch, and rob our passengers;
Drest in a little brief authority,
All form is formless, order orderless,
To a new-crowned monarch: such it is
Seems to prepare his way: so let him land,
I'll not fail, if I live.
He was disposed to mirth; but on the sudden
[Aside to CLAUDIO]  You are a villain; I jest not:
always reason themselves out again. What! a
Enter Clown
Plotted and 'greed on for my happiness.
Make tender of to thy true worthiness:
As for my country I have shed my blood,
Exit
Hath Thetis' birth-child on the heavens bestow'd:
From that supernal judge, that stirs good thoughts
Let him that loves me strike me dead.
The king hath note of all that they intend,
The old Anchises bear, so from the waves of Tiber
Presumptuous vassals, are you not ashamed
one another by the look, like cockatrices.
supper that night.
Prithee, say true.
I do disdain thy courtesy, proud Trojan:
'Your meat doth burn,' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he:
Exit
This is she--
Exeunt all but TITUS
That shall be by and by: I remember the story.
I show it most of all when I show justice;
Ay, such a pleasure as incaged birds
me see; what think you of falling in love?
Interpretation will misquote our looks,
The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
I might have told hereafter.
In glittering golden characters express
old fat man; a tun of man is thy companion. Why
Of parents good, of fist most valiant.
breed. If it shall please you to make me a
Ay, by these gloves, did he, or I would I might
And you shall be conducted.
Their blood is caked, 'tis cold, it seldom flows;
I have assailed her with music, but she vouchsafes no notice.
gentleman of all temperance. But leave we him to
If in her marriage my consent be missing,
Reverbs no hollowness.
Make no more offers, use no farther means,
physic your rankness, and yet give no thousand
Gives signal, of a goodly day to-morrow.
And long live Henry, fourth of that name!
Whilst you were here o'erwhelmed with your grief--
Is he sure bound? look that you bind them fast.
Although they gave their creatures in abundance,
How likes Gremio these quick-witted folks?
I'll keep, if but for sympathy.
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA
Abate thy valour in the acting it.
To rest awhile, some half an hour or so,
So he had need, for 'tis threadbare. Well, I say it
We'll put the matter to the present push.
Why, that the Moor first gave to Desdemona;
By the north pole, I do challenge thee.
If I had said I had seen him do you wrong?
Visit by night your lady's chamber-window
That you shall hate it both: therefore take heed,
That thou couldst see my wars to-day, and knew'st
Nay, good my lord, put him to't; let him have his
Which the false man does easy. I'll to England.
daughters, and leave his horns without a case.
Who brought it?
He leaves his pledges dearer than his life:
Ay, my good lord.
O my Lord Abergavenny, fare you well!
For when you should be told they do prepare,
Exit SELEUCUS
He wanted pikes to set before his archers;
Sir Thomas Lovell, is the banquet ready
Some of the chiefest princes of the Goths;
Was better worth than all my father's lands,
lord: she is never sad but when she sleeps, and
The maid is fair, o' the youngest for a bride,
ruinous disorders, follow us disquietly to our
But that the extreme peril of the case,
New matter still?
You never shall, so help you truth and God!
Now go with me and with this holy man
The whilst his iron did on the anvil cool,
Have you scored me? Well.
My husband hies him home; where, heaven aiding,
In fortune's love; for then the bold and coward,
you must learn to know such slanders of the age, or
Exit BUCKINGHAM
O, I am known
To whose foul mouth no healthsome air breathes in,
you take it not patiently, why, your mettle is the
you must call forth the watch that are their accusers.
Abortives, presages and tongues of heaven,
I may quarter, coz.
in your air.
But I'll be master of it: wilt thou not,
Yes, mine's three thousand crowns: what's yours?
And I, a gasping new-deliver'd mother,
Yet,--
Contain thyself, good friend.
That will prove awful both in deed and word.
Before you, Lepidus.
Augmenting it with tears.
gown: he sees thee not.
I said, my lord, if you did know my parentage,
I was a pack-horse in his great affairs;
Here come our wives, and let us take our leave.
Divided from herself and her fair judgment,
For on thy fortune I repose myself.
Say you consent and censure well the deed,
Who, but for dreaming on this fond exploit,
And thou that smiledst at good Duke Humphrey's death,
Then, tell me, what doth he upon the sea?
go into this closet: he will not stay long.
Indeed, they are disproportion'd;
towards you: I have told you what I have seen
Those uncles which you want were dangerous;
No, but the loss of his own royal person.
No.
teach me to forget a banished father, you must not
Or else worth all the rest; I see thee still,
As may be holloa'd in thy treacherous ear
If thou didst but consent
Where I was wont to feed you with my blood,
Still him in praise: and, being present both
See if 'twill teach us to forget our own?
And buried, gentle Tyrrel?
'I may command where I adore.' Why, she may command
Who, in the lusty stealth of nature, take
First, the gods bless you for your tidings; next,
Now be you blest for it!
And with your speediest bring us what she says,
Which, whiles it lasted, gave King Henry light.
Walks apart
Upon the heavy middle of the night
[Aside]	'Tis Butts,
I find thou art no less than fame hath bruited
I will not marry yet; and, when I do, I swear,
Whilst damned Casca, like a cur, behind
That, whiles warm life plays in that infant's veins,
To sunder them that yoke so well together.
Nor thine on me.
To princely Richard and to Buckingham.
me:
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
Who wouldst thou serve?
Even so as I mine own course have set down:
of that fardel, the place of your dwelling, your
And make, no doubt, us happy by his reign.
Why dost thou call him a knave?  What's his offence?
me if she did nod; and I say, 'Ay.'
It had been so with us, had we been there:
Know what it is to meet Achilles angry:
Within this half-hour, hath received his sight;
His sovereign's life to death and treachery.
Have by their brave instruction got upon me
Sola, sola!
At courtship, pleasant jest and courtesy,
Quite from his nature: he cannot flatter, he,
To have his pomp and all what state compounds
Made me collect these dangers in the duke.
Enter TITUS below
heaven or in hell!
spacious in the possession of dirt.
That now on Pompey's basis lies along
Bring him forth: has sat i' the stocks all night,
Which do but what they should, by doing every thing
What of you?
With a good leg and a good foot, uncle, and money
Alarum. Retreat. Excursions. Exeunt
To Caesar will I render
Thy flesh and bones: howe'er thou art a fiend,
To stay the providence of some high powers
Stop, stop! No help?
Say, what abridgement have you for this evening?
LADY MACBETH is carried out
cause to use thee with a serious industry, that is,
What a devil hast thou to do with the time of the
Where you with Silvia may confer at large;
I say she shall: and first begin with her.
How now! canst stand?
His deeds with doing them, and is content
Your creatures, who by you have been restored:
I have this while with leaden thoughts been press'd:
than a mischief.
And, like a traitor to the name of God,
See, how she leans her cheek upon her hand!
But you are more intemperate in your blood
We must not only arm to invade the French,
Ay, ay, so strives the woodcock with the gin.
You must not leave me yet: I must to bed;
The noble Brutus is ascended: silence!
O sovereign mistress of true melancholy,
'Tis no less, I tell you, for the bawdy hand of the
Be't their comfort
How should this grow?
'I have already chose my officer.'
Well-liking wits they have; gross, gross; fat, fat.
Never to England shall he bear his life;
What, was he sad or merry?
I could not sleep.
All that glitters is not gold;
My thanks, sweet madam.
Whither indeed, before thy here-approach,
May one be pardon'd and retain the offence?
When the devout religion of mine eye
Why, 'tis a cockle or a walnut-shell,
Re-enter LUCIANA with a purse
Unless it be whilst some tormenting dream
Thus, after greeting, speaks the King of France
And you did swear that oath at Doncaster,
All's one. Good faith, how foolish are our minds!
them all: and yet there has been earls, nay, which
Enter HUBERT
So Romeo would, were he not Romeo call'd,
Is this great Agamemnon's tent, I pray you?
fiends have been in poor Tom at once; of lust, as
It is to be all made of fantasy,
Are led so grossly by this meddling priest,
That lately stole his daughter:
What noise there, ho?
Wherewith my brother held you in the cloister?
Whate'er occasion keeps him from us now.
Which your own coffers yield! with diseased ventures
And therefore I will take the Nevils' parts
To use as you think needful of the man.
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
And that, without delay, their arguments
To-morrow, sir, I wrestle for my credit; and he that
Which was not half so beautiful and kind;
Farewell, good king: when I am dead and gone,
What news, Borachio?
Through Athens I am thought as fair as she.
thou wast born with.
False to thy gods, thy brother, and thy father;
Enter HECTOR, TROILUS, AJAX, AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, MENELAUS, and DIOMEDES, with lights
Ay, such a place there is, where we did hunt--
The honour'd gashes whole.
parle, know now, upon advice, it toucheth us both,
more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any is in
You must return and mend it.
Leaving the fight in height, flies after her:
Send for your daughter by your servant here:
To kiss this shrine, this mortal-breathing saint:
lent him visitation.
Most often do so near the bottom run
Debosh'd on every tomb, on every grave
To smother up the English in our throngs,
Flies may do this, but I from this must fly:
Antony only, that would make his will
And I have better news in store for you
A flourish, trumpets! strike alarum, drums!
To make the noble Leonatus mad,
In sign of what you are, not to reward
Good sometime queen, prepare thee hence for France:
Good my lord,
My father made in compassing the crown!
Most gracious sir,
that sighs for thee. Remember who commended thy
To stir a mutiny in the mildest thoughts
Alack, in me what strange effect
That's not my meaning: but breathe his faults so quaintly
Merchant of Syracuse, plead no more;
Now, what's the business?
My country's good with a respect more tender,
I had rather hear you to solicit that
Besides, this sorrow is an enemy,
Unless the gods delight in tragedies?
Condemns you to the death. See them deliver'd over
My blood begins my safer guides to rule;
For I will make him tell the tale anew,
And craves no other tribute at thy hands
Exeunt
that they speak i' the nose thus?
Say he be taken, rack'd and tortured,
By my troth, 's not so good; and I warrant your
We lost a jewel of her; and our esteem
But the queen's kindred and night-walking heralds
And substituted in the place of mine,
For a short holding: if we lose the field,
For still thy eyes, which I may call the sea,
The fairest is confession.
lady in the world.
England! Farewell, dear mother.
As love doth give my heart; no woman's heart
true, think you?
As chaste as is the bud ere it be blown;
Commend me to the princes in our camp;
In sooth, good friend, your father might have kept
When the intent of bearing them is just.
itself courageous to petticoat: therefore courage,
We are not furnish'd like Bohemia's son,
And unavoided is the danger now,
I am your own for ever.
Nor this I have not, brother, so denied,
And why so?
Where heart doth hop:
Maintain--I know not what: 'tis trash. Farewell.
Where, for these many hundred years, the bones
May be a coward's; whose ministers would prevail
And hold our lives in mercy. Oswald, I say!
They that stabb'd Caesar shed no blood at all,
But that slander, sir,
Which when you part from, lose, or give away,
Men are to mell with, boys are not to kiss:
Where kings command. I was, I must confess,
'Gan in your duller Britain operate
That you are worthless.
Skipper, stand back: 'tis age that nourisheth.
By his command
I thank my God for my humility.
We burn daylight: here, read, read; perceive how I
Utter my thoughts? Why, say they are vile and false;
My mistress and her sister stays for you.
Forsooth, I have forgot.
If you will live, lament; if die, be brief,
You are always my good friend; if your will pass,
Which to reduce into our former favour
Myself in person will straight follow you.
Have earnestly implored a general peace
matter between party and party, if you chance to be
Is by your fancy's thankful doom.
on, have them still. O, my knave, how does my old lady?
What's here?
Who is to bear me like a thunderbolt
Lucentio's father is arrived in Padua,
And for thy life let justice be accused.
constrains a man to bow in the hams.
How with mine honour may I give him that
I would your grace would give us but an hour
Let us make the assay upon him: if he care not
Is loathsome in his own deliciousness
And every Greek of mettle, let him know,
Of basilisks, of cannon, culverin,
neither than with safety of a pure blush thou mayst
Horses did neigh, and dying men did groan,
For, were he, he had shown it in his looks.
Accomplish'd with the number of thy hours;
'Twould make her amiable and subdue my father
before to make a fire, and they are coming after to
Ere a determinate resolution, he,
SCENE III. The same. Before the gates.
To clustering filberts and sometimes I'll get thee
With an invisible and subtle stealth
Claudio--whose estimation do you mightily hold
And all the household servants fled with him
Ourselves to be the slaves of chance and flies
Thorough bush, thorough brier,
with them:'
With the mere rankness of their joy.
And, pretty fool, it stinted and said 'Ay.'
I died for hope ere I could lend thee aid:
And even but now return'd; I have not yet
Go not home.
Why, Petruchio is coming in a new hat and an old
Soft music
March to assault thy country than to tread--
Have chid me from the battle; swearing both
souls, and you a curer of bodies; if you should
And as for Pericles,
I'll teach them to prevent wild Alcibiades' wrath.
As e'er my conversation coped withal.
with a paper: God give him grace to groan!
We have with a leaven'd and prepared choice
I would I knew his mind.
though this knave came something saucily into the
I could have given my uncle's grace a flout,
And, ignorant of his birth and parentage,
Say how I loved you, speak me fair in death;
And so most joyfully we take our leave.
Courtsied when you have and kiss'd
'Tis he, my lord. Come hither, goodman baldpate:
To scatter 'em, as 'tis to make 'em sleep
Things base and vile, folding no quantity,
And, like Limander, am I trusty still.
That rends the thorns and is rent with the thorns,
O'er whom I give thee power, here to this place:
Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the
For confirmation that I am much more
Exeunt
Is like a good thing, being often read,
Exeunt
That I kiss aught but he.
Throw over her the veil of infamy:
Enter DUKE SOLINUS, AEGEON, Gaoler, Officers, and other Attendants
Exit ISABELLA
Exeunt
Not for the world: why, man, she is mine own,
Of common-kissing Titan, and forget
And, by his soul, thou and thy house shall rue it.
Sure, I think so;
The love of wicked men converts to fear;
Set down our host. My partner in this action,
Exit
The coward horse that bears me fail and die!
The general suit of Rome; never admitted
Of me for jests; but now I'll set my teeth,
To give him welcome.
machinations, hollowness, treachery, and all
Whiles other men have gates and those gates open'd,
Saint Davy's day is past.
Ay, my good lord: safe in a ditch he bides,
And this deceit loses the name of craft,
I will not stir, nor wince, nor speak a word,
Should grace the triumph of great Bolingbroke?
shall ne'er weigh more reasons in her balance: nay,
Exeunt some Attendants
Then, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill, kill!
Give me thy hand: I will swear to the prince thou
should be thought a coward: but his few bad words
Most sure, the goddess
In best appointment all our regiments.
I'll provide you a chain; and I'll do what I can to
latter end of a play, before the duke:
Do not weep, do not weep. Alas the day!
Unto my brother, Archbishop of York.
My lord!
royalty of her father: draw, you rogue, or I'll so
Enough.
Change it, change it;
Black-Monday last at six o'clock i' the morning,
wish might be found in the calendar of my past
Although she lave them hourly in the flood.
When she shall lack it.
I cannot tell what the dickens his name is my
no truth in your report. When was it she last walked?
Tell out my blood.
What thriftless sighs shall poor Olivia breathe!
With the most noble bottom of our fleet,
Pardon me, madam:
are but now cast in his mood, a punishment more in
None at all.
Having all day caroused and banqueted:
As when the golden sun salutes the morn,
That as Ulysses and stout Diomede
Have slime upon them, such as the aspic leaves
which is called true is so like an old tale, that
behalf as you have uttered words in your own, you
save thy grace,--majesty I should say, for grace
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
Do you hear aught, sir, of a battle toward?
contract of her marriage and the day it is
To bear him easily hence!
There is among the Greeks Achilles, a better man than Troilus.
I must stay his time.
I'll warrant you, 'tis as well:
For which your honour and your faith is pawn'd;
It would unclew me quite.
To prove upon thy heart, whereto I speak,
me. Now is the Count Rousillon a widower: his vows
desire your more acquaintance, good Master
Upon the life of this thrice-famed duke.
Thanks for your pains.
[Aside]                What will this come to?
Than whereupon our weal, on you depending,
shoulders, shall within this hour be off; thy
velvet: his left cheek is a cheek of two pile and a
Grows dainty of his worth, and in his tent
Orsino.
I will pray, Pompey, to increase your bondage: If
Shall I never see a bachelor of three-score again?
Whom angry heavens do make their minister
Save ceremony, save general ceremony?
What's this to my Lysander? where is he?
Small have continual plodders ever won
not speak of without he say 'Sir-reverence.' I have
against all married mankind; so curses all Eve's
I'll jest a twelvemonth in an hospital.
Away! I do condemn mine ears that have
If you were born to honour, show it now;
And therefore, personally I lay my claim
Taxation!
For it shall strew the footsteps of my rising.
Exeunt
Ay, if thou wilt say 'ay' to my request;
Pushes OSWALD out
the year! we'ld find no fault with the tithe-woman,
A stranger and distressed gentleman,
What you have done hath not offended me;
Nay, you were better speak first, and when you were
If I last in this service, you must case me in leather.
O Regan, wilt thou take her by the hand?
Or springhalt reign'd among 'em.
I was provoked by her slanderous tongue,
More witnesseth than fancy's images
I weigh my friend's affection with mine own;
Let every man be master of his time
I were your son, so you would love me, Hubert.
write and read.
To wrathful terms: this place is dangerous;
assistance therein.
that we may yet again have access to our fair
shall give you direction.
Upon our spiritual convocation
countenance her.
delivered him to his liberty or executed him? I
Hero! why, Hero! Uncle! Signior Benedick! Friar!
I thank thee for thy care and honest pains.
The tenor of my book; trust not my age,
I from the north.
Had stomach for them all.
Lay not that mattering unction to your soul,
throw it to.
Than the queen's life? a gracious innocent soul,
This loathsome sequestration have I had:
It strains me past the compass of my wits:
Contract us 'fore these witnesses.
Let's levy men, and beat him back again.
Then never dream on infamy, but go.
You ask with such a violence, the king,
Or, if I live, is it not very like,
Sailors, sir: they say they have letters for you.
power that we have no power to do; for if he show us
Which by the interpretation of full time
DEMETRIUS throws the body of BASSIANUS into the  pit; then exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, dragging off LAVINIA
Enter CLEON and DIONYZA
As many other mannish cowards have
Norfolk, throw down, we bid; there is no boot.
Only convey me where thou art commanded.
their wills: fill thy purse with money:--the food
More than the instant army we can make,
Or, if she be accused in true report,
For then I pity those I do not know,
revolutions: these are begot in the ventricle of
Smother her spirits up.
are no husband for her.
Is Rosaline, whom thou didst love so dear,
Making the mother, wife and child to see
Crying 'Long live! hail, Caesar!'
But does foul pranks which fair and wise ones do.
With character too gross is writ on Juliet.
Madam, you're best consider.
Ruled, like a wandering planet, over me,
Thou bleed'st apace.
I'll be as good as my word: he will bear you easily
Now, great Thetis' son!
A kind good night to all!
Exceeding pleasant; none a stranger there
Pardon me, sweet one, even for the vows
Exeunt
An angry arm against His minister.
I am their fathers mother; I will see them.
Heaven ever laid up to make parents happy,
And it shall please me well: for mine own part,
My evils conjured to remembrance and
Exit
This tyrant, whose sole name blisters our tongues,
That noble-minded Titus means to thee!
which you hear him so confidently undertake to do.
Like to a step-dame or a dowager
So did I, I'll be sworn: he is simply the rarest
My noble Lord of Suffolk, or for that
And if my death might make this island happy,
Upon my sword.
But pearls are fair; and the old saying is,
hundred pound on't: and then a whoreson jackanapes
And those who have the wit to claim the place:
vouching--and upon warrant of bloody
Nay, I was rhyming: 'tis you that have the reason.
Limps after in base imitation.
Your worth, your greatness and nobility.
Ay, and the targets, to put off the shame:
Upon thine honour, is he prisoner?
Arise; one knocks; good Romeo, hide thyself.
That answer to them: would you in their serving,
Of my defeatures. My decayed fair
And Hippolyta.
Bear a fair presence, though your heart be tainted;
Their shallow shows and prologue vilely penn'd
She will beshrew me much that Romeo
Exeunt
But I have cause to pry into this pedant:
Buck! I would I could wash myself of the buck!
Levied an army, weening to redeem
Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius,
Titus, prepare thy aged eyes to weep;
So all men do, from hence to the palace gate
Did quarrel with the noblest grace she owed
Prizes of accident as oft as merit:
I lay it naked to the deadly stroke,
Away with him! and make a fire straight;
Exeunt
Will to my sense bend no licentious ear,
Three Dukes of Somerset, threefold renown'd
That is not often vouch'd, while 'tis a-making,
I shall be glad to learn of noble men.
The hopes of court! my hopes in heaven do dwell.
You know, my lord, your highness is betroth'd
To cross the seas and to be crown'd in France:
Of goodly thousands: but, for all this,
How art thou out of breath, when thou hast breath
Here's more news.
Which to you shall seem probable, of every
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends;
With what it loathes for that which is away.
He loves the gallimaufry: Ford, perpend.
Dies
Which is--no, no--which was the fairest dame
O, yes, into a thousand similes.
Go on before; I shall inquire you forth:
Drinks
But by bad courses may be understood
With some few private friends upon this coast.
And solemnly see him set on to London.
What need we any spur but our own cause,
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
As I am confident and kind to thee.
And put us to our answer.
And set mine eyes at flow.
From which advantage shall we cut him off,
Re-enter KING LEAR, with CORDELIA dead in his arms; EDGAR, Captain, and others following
This letter. That's her chamber. Tell my lady
For I myself must hunt this deer to death.
unknown, without seeking find, and be embraced by a
Exeunt
Their wives have sense like them: they see and smell
Of him, sir.
How many fond fools serve mad jealousy!
Arise, I say.
No more, I say! For that I have not wash'd
drudge: he that comforts my wife is the cherisher
The dam will wake; and, if she wind you once,
To visit other places; and come down
To say my mother's name was Thaisa?
but as thou art prince, I fear thee as I fear the
I will drop in his way some obscure epistles of
Then will I think upon a recompense.
Aches contract and starve your supple joints!
To seek her as a bed-fellow,
Is now transported, gentles, to Southampton;
Some subtilties o' the isle, that will not let you
drunk: but I'll swear it, and I would thou wouldst
This dangerous conception in this point.
You must to Pomfret, not unto the Tower.
Where is he?
To-morrow, in mine opinion, is too sudden;
SCENE IV. The same. KING PHILIP'S tent.
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
entrenched it: say to him, I live; and observe his
any of your words? I have seen you gleeking and
As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and labour
Sir, let me be so bold as ask you,
I saw him yesterday, or t' other day,
To the last penny; 'tis the king's: my robe,
Come, come; for thou shalt thrust thy hand as deep
Your eyes do menace me: why look you pale?
The truth is, she and I, long since contracted,
not have hit, I can watch you for telling how I took
That Geffrey was thy elder brother born,
Have wish'd the sleeping of this business; never desired
Enter ARIEL, invisible
Must feel war's blow, who spares not innocence:
Thou mightst have done this without thy beard and
What see you in those papers that you lose
up my legs sometime, yet I made a shift to cast
To share with me in glory any more:
What halloing and what stir is this to-day?
him read many lectures against it, and I thank God
When it is all to nought; and his quails ever
A still and quiet conscience. The king has cured me,
A mere anatomy, a mountebank,
We say that Shore's wife hath a pretty foot,
me the king's brother-in-law.
Turns to restraint. Our natures do pursue,
Princely shall be thy usage every way.
You all consented unto Salisbury's death,
off Caesar's images, are put to silence. Fare you
All this was order'd by the good discretion
O me! you juggler! you canker-blossom!
Exeunt
Thy Edward he is dead, that stabb'd my Edward:
And mayst be honour'd, being Cato's son.
The Duke of Suffolk muffled up in rags!
Go hence a little and I shall conduct you,
But I know none, and therefore am no beast.
Nay, I'll come: if I lose a scruple of this sport,
Come, come,
O mistress mine, where are you roaming?
Forced to cry out. Where I could not be honest,
Plantagenet shall speak first: hear him, lords;
Not one word more, my maids; break off, break off.
[Within]  Let him walk from whence he came, lest he
know his conditions and lay him in straw. I have but
ago, and wert taken with the manner, and ever since
The primogenitive and due of birth,
my speech, for besides that it is excellently well
Writing
Is bound for Italy; he embark'd at Milford;
But, Warwick, after God, thou set'st me free,
[Aside to ISABELLA]           Ay, well said.
Where great patricians shall attend and shrug,
commandment: if not, your pardon and my return
Enter CORIN
Now, sir, hast thou cried her through the market?
argument? Now, if these men do not die well, it
your own fault and not mine: for had you been as I
Ay, my good lord.
Study his bias leaves and makes his book thine eyes,
letters yourself: and so, sir, I'll commend you to my master.
Enter KING HENRY VIII, reading of a schedule, and LOVELL
He were no lion, were not Romans hinds.
With a foul traitor's name stuff I thy throat;
Unspeak mine own detraction, here abjure
And wet his grave with my repentant tears,
Now presently I'll give her father notice
What, shall they seek the lion in his den,
apple, yet I can tell what I can tell.
I prithee, boy, run to the senate-house;
sometime like a lawyer; sometime like a philosopher,
And sometimes we are devils to ourselves,
Drum beats
Are you so fond of your young prince as we
He shall not make me there a joyful bride.
I shall say so to him.
Exit
We all were sea-swallow'd, though some cast again,
Falls
Who was by good appliance recovered.
wear it in his cap: I promised to strike him, if he
Thus wisdom wishes to appear most bright
They stared, and were distracted; no man's life
Madam, they are not yet;
Beyond the mark of thought: and the high gods,
lady? he's fortified against any denial.
I will not wish ye half my miseries;
Yet did I purpose as they do entreat;
Sweet Duke of York, our prop to lean upon,
I find an apt remission in myself;
He bear himself with honourable action,
And what have kings, that privates have not too,
And this the royalty of Albion's king?
Courtesy itself must convert to disdain, if you come
Signior Benedick that said so.
O'ercome you with her show, and in time,
it, spend it; spend more; spend all I have; only
You think me an impostor: no, good faith;
How long will a man lie i' the earth ere he rot?
Tell him from his all-obeying breath I hear
Go with me: if you like upon report
that were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one
Do you hear, ho? you must meet my master to
What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
Who worse than a physician
With fame, a name to Caius Marcius; these
We know not where you left him all alive;
and, truly, I hold it a sin to match in my kindred.
For fly he could not, if he would have fled;
Was he met there? his train? Camillo with him?
May yet ere night yield both my life and them
Cleopatra, know,
your whores, sir, being members of my occupation,
You are too senseless--obstinate, my lord,
He cannot come, my lord; he is grievous sick.
I to this fortune that you see me in.
invisible within the circumference.
yet to be what I would not shall not make me tame:
Thou wast never with me for any thing when thou wast
Mistress Anne, my cousin loves you.
Is it possible?
Sir John Falstaff.
What we took from them; which, for traffic's sake,
Nothing of me, has a'?
his dole! They can tell you how things go better
It cannot be avoided but by this;
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Silence!
Of both is flatter'd; but he neither loves,
Rise from the ground like feather'd Mercury,
With nimble soles: I have a soul of lead
Mann'd with three hundred men, as I have heard;
Male varlet, you rogue! what's that?
The cannons to the heavens, the heavens to earth,
Fills the wide vessel of the universe.
Believe me, I do not believe thee, man;
Egypt, thou knew'st too well
Him vile that was your garland. What's the matter,
Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me,
Dear sovereign, hear me speak.
great an opposition.' Say you so, say you so? I say
In gait and countenance surely like a father.
It was Alencon that enjoy'd my love.
Now, sirrah; you do wish yourself in Egypt?
Before I be convict by course of law,
I cry thee mercy then, for I had thought
the challenge, subscribed for Cupid, and challenged
Most free in his reply.
about matters they were not able to answer.
Not cast aside so soon.
Trim sport for them that had the doing of it.
No, no; you must play Pyramus: and, Flute, you Thisby.
And so I do commend you to their backs. Farewell.
We doubt not of a fair and lucky war,
The bell then beating one,--
Nay, rather, every tedious stride I make
When they are gone, then must I count my gains.
Adieu, sir.
Keeps honour bright: to have done is to hang
Bids thee leave these, and with her sovereign grace,
As are those dulcet sounds in break of day
God for his mercy, what treachery is here!
From whom my absence was not six months old
A noise within
Where hast thou been, my heart? Dost thou hear, lady?
That man should be at woman's command, and yet no
Heard you of nothing strange about the streets?
Is this the noble Moor whom our full senate
Exit
No court in Europe is too good for thee;
At least into a jealousy so strong
speakest well of fools!
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Which, look'd on as it is, is nought but shadows
Of eyes again so royal! Your crown's awry;
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way,
love her; yes, for her two eyes. Well, I do nothing
The impression of keen whips I'ld wear as rubies,
Who knows the lord protector's mind herein?
No, no, they were not bound.
And bid his ears a little while be deaf,
Away, you three-inch fool! I am no beast.
The bloom that promiseth a mighty fruit.
Let none think flattery, for they'll find 'em truth.
Brake off our business for the Holy Land.
For this care of Tamora,
Caesar shall forth: the things that threaten'd me
like an image and says nothing, and the other too
Your affairs there, what, with whom, the condition
Yes, faith, sir.
Where hast thou been, sister?
Of the grave wearers. O, the sacrifice!
Through 'tis a saying, sir, not due to me.
Exeunt
Exeunt
To die upon the bed my father died,
With his surcease success; that but this blow
Were by his side; sometime he calls the king,
This challenge that the gallant Hector sends,
Putting a paper crown on his head
For all this spice of your hypocrisy:
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves:'
To entertain the lag-end of my life
Why, yet he doth deny his prisoners,
Stand!
Then that you have sent innumerable substance--
Enter NERISSA with a Servitor
Why should he be killed?
I will not flatter her.
And bring thy news so late?
The rest aloof are the Dardanian wives,
In a most hideous and dreadful manner:
grown a very land-fish, language-less, a monster.
Hath he deserved to lose his birthright thus?
more choler.
Peace, fool! thy master and his man are here,
Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue
Call her divine.
But yet to me they are strong. The queen his mother
Wisdom and fortune combating together,
To stop the inundation of her tears;
Alarums. Enter KING HENRY and forces, EXETER, and others
What, gone without a word?
Enter HELENA
My honour'd lady,
Alas, my lord, what do you mean by that?
I came hither to tell you; and, circumstances
We may surprise and take him at our pleasure?
Retreat: excursions. JOAN LA PUCELLE, ALENCON, and CHARLES fly
Attend me, lords. The proud insulting queen,
How! she is busy and she cannot come!
Healthful; and ever since a fresh admirer
And what is 'a stone,' William?
Ay, on mine honour.
Are of imagination all compact:
weighed, that curiosity in neither can make choice
When all's spent, he 'ld be cross'd then, an he could.
Marry, we'll search.
Therefore, above the rest, we parley to you:
As he had seen't or been an instrument
In any proportion or in any language.
Good night, good night: heaven me such uses send,
That excellent grand tyrant of the earth,
More than in words?
He tells thee so himself.
Cries 'This is he,' could promise to himself
Farewell, father.
Therefore I will be sudden and dispatch.
Exeunt
You wish'd us parties, we'll deliver you
Fie, thou'rt a churl; ye've got a humour there
When Richmond was a little peevish boy.
There is not work enough for all our hands;
Such goodness of your justice, that our soul
I can call spirits from the vasty deep.
Shall top the legitimate. I grow; I prosper:
O my lord,
And when she weeps, weeps every little flower,
But look'd not on the poison of their hearts :
And thence retire me to my Milan, where
infect my brain, being the herdsmen of the beastly
'Tell him,' quoth she, 'my mourning weeds are done,
It doth import him much to speak with me.
The use of your own virtues, for the which
toes look through the over-leather.
That I did.
receives not thy nose court-odor from me? reflect I
Give me your hand first. Fare you well, my lord.
Other affairs must now be managed.
I must entreat you, honour me so much
Exit
Than are upon you yet.
substance of the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
Tut, were it farther off, I'll pluck it down.
And Warwick shall disprove it. You forget
I will be thine; and till that instant shut
O, good madam, there can be none yet.
O' my word, an she knew him as well as I do, she
As mercy does.
ANTIPHOLUS
Put up your swords.
When Cassio left my wife: what didst not like?
'Twas full two years ere I could get a tooth.
Yet if thou say Antony lives, is well,
Yet there's as little justice as at land:
Nine! Come hither to me, Master Froth. Master
Which till this time my tongue did ne'er pronounce,
These signs forerun the death or fall of kings.
That first we come to words; and therefore have we
Which makes the true man kill'd and saves the thief;
And happily I have arrived at the last
Sir, speed you: what's your will?
Now, trust me, 'tis an office of great worth
Where great Aufidius lies: is he in Antium?
Hath oftentimes upbraided me withal:
Those gracious words revive my drooping thoughts
Exeunt
Re-enter CLEOMENES and others, with FLORIZEL and PERDITA
Away before me to sweet beds of flowers:
And left thee there; where thou didst vent thy groans
Of my consent that she should be your wife.
Return unto thy lord; commend me to him:
And I, my royal sovereign.
Would you have a love-song, or a song of good life?
Enter LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HERMIA, and HELENA
This swears he, as he is a prince, is just;
and hear the lady sing in Welsh.
Choose thou thy husband, and I'll pay thy dower;
To pinch her by the hand, and, on that token,
That find such cruel battle here within?
I doubt it not; and all these woes shall serve
When my poor heart no measure keeps in grief:
Wicked and vile; and so her death concludes.
No, I will rob Tellus of her weed,
He speaks with such a proud commanding spirit.
Whose soldier now, under whose blessed cross
Come, neighbour.
before her wedding-day: if you love her then,
And that thy tongue some say of breeding breathes,
want not, time and place will be fruitfully offered.
Humbly entreating from your royal thoughts
And threatened me with death, going in the vault,
I am inform'd that he comes towards London,
Till, gnawing with my teeth my bonds in sunder,
For forth he goes and visits all his host.
Split'st the unwedgeable and gnarled oak
Exit with CRESSIDA
And all the currents of a heady fight.
Ay, or a stomach.
But see what heaven can do! By this our change,
And hardly shall I carry out my side,
mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter?
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, WARWICK, MONTAGUE, CLARENCE, EXETER, and OXFORD
And dangerous success of bloody wars,
Come, sir, leave me your snatches, and yield me a
Because it is a customary cross,
Out of a great deal of old iron I chose forth.
What a merit were it in death to take this poor maid
Right noble is thy merit, well I wot.
First, know, my horse is tired; my master and
Exeunt PROTEUS and SILVIA severally
Good words are better than bad strokes, Octavius.
Or never more to view nor day nor light.
the orchard and saw me court Margaret in Hero's
One that but performs
wrongs you.
As I would buy thee, view thee limb by limb.
The silence often of pure innocence
As you have done my truth. If he know
And give our vineyards to a barbarous people.
Before our army. Thy Pacorus, Orodes,
And he shall think that thou, which know'st the way
The hour's now come;
The king, sir,--
CARDINAL
After life's fitful fever he sleeps well;
Heaven make you better than your thoughts!
When power to flattery bows? To plainness honour's bound,
that word?
Were I not old. Know, Claudio, to thy head,
Henry the Eighth, life, honour, name and all
And braggart with my tongue! But, gentle heavens,
What seest thou there? King Henry's diadem,
And laugh this sport o'er by a country fire;
And stand securely on their battlements,
Master Brook, I will not lie to you: I was at her
For, hark you, Tybalt being slain so late,
'Tis true, my lords, he did.
She is a woman, therefore may be won;
And, like a mountain cedar, reach his branches
Then take thine auld cloak about thee.
With fairest flowers
And do not interrupt me in my course.
Eternity was in our lips and eyes,
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
Upon a courser, whose delightful steps
How now, my hardy, stout resolved mates!
Exit COSTARD, running
Lives not to act another. Be satisfied;
Out upon it, old carrion! rebels it at these years?
No.
O, speak of that; that do I long to hear.
England, to mope with his fat-brained followers so
Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek
And my appointments have in them a need
Exeunt ELBOW, POMPEY and Officers
That made great Jove to humble him to her hand.
Indies; I understand moreover, upon the Rialto, he
Exit QUEEN GERTRUDE
Amphimachus and Thoas deadly hurt,
Fiend, thou torment'st me ere I come to hell!
Lays his hand on his head
And makest conjectural fears to come into me
Till seven at night: to make society
Tut, I have lost myself; I am not here;
This is the sergeant
Admits no orifex for a point as subtle
'Tis thought, Lord Talbot, when the fight began,
But sound the trumpets, and about our task.
Thou makest me merry; I am full of pleasure:
Enter Messenger and TALBOT
Or count them happy that enjoy the sun?
My lord, we'll do it throughly.
To MONTANO, who is led off
How Troy was burnt and he made miserable?
Is business of estate; in which we come
None, but to
My dangerous cousin, let your mother in:
Were it not glory that we more affected
and puts me her white hand to his cloven chin--
I was employ'd in passing to and fro,
Hang thee, monster!
As she that he hath stain'd?
Though you untie the winds and let them fight
And no conception nor no jealous toy
Or go to bed now, being two hours to day:
That wisdom, loyalty and mere dislike
holding or loss of that, you term her frail. I do
she-Mercury.
Accountant to the law upon that pain.
Of that most delicate lodging: by my life,
Uncleanly scruples! fear not you: look to't.
Whatever shall become of Michael Cassio,
My wife is in a wayward mood to-day,
From Silvius, sir.
'Thanks, gentle citizens and friends,' quoth I;
And give him burial in his father's grave:
I know not.
and hiding mine honour in my necessity, am fain to
Find them out whose names are written here! It is
be it spoken. I should quickly leap into a wife.
Call this a lightning? O my love! my wife!
Expecting ever when some envious surge
'Tis but thy name that is my enemy;
He'll go along o'er the wide world with me;
With some suspicion. I will weep for thee;
But, sure, some Tereus hath deflowered thee,
And so, I hope, he came by't. Back my ring:
I have almost matter enough in me for such an
Myself would, on the rearward of reproaches,
Save in the constant image of the creature
A man in all the world's new fashion planted,
Well, the fuel is gone that maintained that fire:
Go, gentle Marcus, to thy nephew Lucius;
Lucilius' Servant	Ha! is not that his steward muffled so?
abuses our young plants with carving 'Rosalind' on
vain-glory. He knows not me: I said 'Good morrow,
Thou art my brother; so we'll hold thee ever.
Well met; good morrow, Titus and Hortensius.
To her in haste; give her this jewel; say,
'These are their reasons; they are natural;'
Since birth, and heaven, and earth, all three do meet
I will not love myself. Do you not love me?
I would not be so sick though for his place:
Lay hands on the villain: I believe a' means to
How if they will not?
Coming and going with thy honey breath.
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
I think there's never a man in Christendom
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself,
Ye see, I drink the water of mine eyes.
Cannot remove nor choke the strong conception
I had lived a blessed time; for, from this instant,
Against my brother's life.
I'll buy him of you.
Not one of those but had a noble father.
Exit
In Hermia's love I yield you up my part;
Nature in you stands on the very verge
An hour but married, Tybalt murdered,
Which, I dare vouch, is more than that he hath,
Thou art a villain.
They are not yet come back. But I have spoke
Fit for the mountains and the barbarous caves,
I tender to thy hand: all thy vexations
have your daughter covered with a Barbary horse;
violence of action hath made you reek as a
You tempt the fury of my three attendants,
to thy heart, and farewell.'
kinsman Toby,--
Enter, from the brothel, two Gentlemen
excuse. Never excuse; for when the players are all
As, deathmen, you have rid this sweet young prince!
You fillip me o' the head.
Give grandam kingdom, and it grandam will
in his pew; set ratsbane by his porridge; made film
As well descended as thyself; and hath
Well, well: but, for mine own part, as I have set
You Banbury cheese!
bald-pated, lying rascal, you must be hooded, must
Romans, forget your fealty to me.
An hour or more, not meaning any harm?
your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't; it hath
They are all in order and march toward us.
Do not embrace me till each circumstance
At Lacedaemon and Byzantium
May it please you, lords, to grant the commons' suit.
A march afar off
How then? sick?
Without defeat. Therefore to France, my liege.
[Aside]  No; but he fled forward still, toward your face.
Hum--conspiracy!--'Sleep till I waked him,--you
Exeunt
I must entreat of you some of that money.
The Turkish preparation makes for Rhodes;
That tips with silver all these fruit-tree tops--
As you have ever been my father's honour'd friend,
You had but that opinion of yourself
But yet come not: you are a tame man, go!
Sir, I think
Which action's self was tongue to. All was royal;
As true a dog as ever fought at head.
Being the agents, or base second means,
I will talk further with you.
And cried 'all hail!' when as he meant all harm.
Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago:
Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love.
make your two affirmatives why then, the worse for
Thou seest the world, Volumnius, how it goes;
The letter at Sir Toby's great importance;
fasted, it was presently after dinner; when you
To show an unfelt sorrow is an office
When the man dies, let the inheritance
Re-enter KING. BERTRAM and PAROLLES retire
To new-store France with bastard warriors.
If both remain alive: to take the widow
Yesterday took: Troy holds him very dear.
Dove-drawn with her. Here thought they to have done
But cannot make my heart consent to take
remembered, that such a one and such a one were past
Condemned villain, I do apprehend thee:
you sent hither to praise me?
What shall I say? to safeguard thine own life,
Is not to stir without great argument,
To want the bridegroom when the priest attends
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
altar; it hath done meritorious service.
Limp'd in pure love: till he be first sufficed,
policy, that mongrel cur, Ajax, against that dog of
Whose fortunes shall rise higher, Caesar's or mine?
mind it was: this is called the Retort Courteous.
From ashes ancient Gower is come;
Come hither: pray you,
Nay, 'tis for me to be patient; I am in adversity.
To stop the air would hurt them. The blind mole casts
Ah, sirrah, by my fay, it waxes late:
Because all those things you have done of late,
And give the letters which thou find'st about me
brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the
Of man and country.
Nor shall not, if I do as I intend.
Hath left you unattended.
The dead with charity enclosed in clay:
Ah, word ill urged to one that is so ill!
little nearer this ways:--I myself dwell with master
My rest and negligence befriends thee now,
We'll calm the Duke of Norfolk, you your son.
For which myself, the ignorant motive, do
Let him come back, that his compassion may
Marry, sir, besides myself, I am due to a woman; one
Then love-devouring death do what he dare;
Is ruin'd, and the soul of every man
Thou sayest well, and it holds well too; for the
there is but three skirts for yourself, in my
Not poppy, nor mandragora,
[Aside to PAROLLES]  Is she gone to the king?
happiness!
patience; and, in roaring for a chamber-pot,
use me with estimation.
King Richard, he is in the mighty hold
That barefoot plod I the cold ground upon,
I do beseech your majesty, impute his words
Flourish. Exeunt
The late demand that you did sound me in.
Seek through your camp to find you.
Lead'st first to win some vantage.
Will bear no colour for the thing he is,
She shows a body rather than a life,
But, seeing thou fall'st on me so luckily,
SCENE IV. The FRENCH KING's palace.
But let his disposition have that scope
Exceeds what we expected.
Escaped the hunt. No port is free; no place,
Even so great men great losses should endure.
He, with two striplings-lads more like to run
and let 'em win the work: the devil was amongst
To have well-armed friends.
Alarum. Excursions. Enter PRINCE HENRY, LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER, and EARL OF WESTMORELAND
In ranks and squadrons and right form of war,
Lend less than thou owest,
Exeunt
It rains downright.
another as half-pence are, every one fault seeming
Here they fight
This present enterprise set off his head,
Thy name and honourable family,
Come, come, the cause: if arguing make us sweat,
Fierce to their skill and to their fierceness valiant;
After, Aumerle! mount thee upon his horse;
It is the lady that Pyramus must love.
Have no more profit of their shining nights
Good heart, what grace hast thou, thus to reprove
He cannot be such a monster--
an I were not a very coward, I'ld compel it of you:
Giving our holy virgins to the stain
Because I love you, I will let you know:
Ere twice in murk and occidental damp
That this great king may kindly say,
To waste these times. Good hour of night, Sir Thomas!
The wanton Edward, and the lusty George?
'Integer vitae, scelerisque purus,
We need more light to find your meaning out.
Who glared upon me, and went surly by,
These from our king unto your majesty:
Well, I will do it, sir: fare you well.
And are the cities, that I got with wounds,
your people,
You rogue, here's lime in this sack too: there is
'The humour of it,' quoth a'! here's a fellow
That keeps his leaves in spite of any storm,
their better safety, to fly away by night.
With mutual cunning, 'twixt Albany and Cornwall;
O, that my tongue were in the thunder's mouth!
An if we live, we live to tread on kings;
Be every man himself?
To beautify him, only lacks a cover:
But, for all this, my honest-natured friends,
And so 'scape hanging: trust not the physician;
Enter LAUNCELOT
derive me ill will to speak of; therefore I will not
Made such a sinner of his memory,
And I am ready to put armour on.'
And here's another, whose warp'd looks proclaim
Sir, go you in; and, madam, go with him;
You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made;
Do, most dear queen.
[Kneeling]
A poor unminded outlaw sneaking home,
It doth, my worthy lord; and in this match
He be approved in practise culpable.
I'll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners and
The fruit she goes with
Her suit is now to repossess those lands;
Mistress Page! trust me, I was going to your house.
I hope you will not mock me with a husband.
And so I am, I am.
And like a civil war set'st oath to oath,
drab, and uses the traitor Calchas' tent: I'll
Dark night, that from the eye his function takes,
And sets a blister there, makes marriage-vows
Re-enter PUCK
We wish it ours again; the present pleasure,
Unfurnish me of reason. They are come.
Have you done there?
And so am I for Ganymede.
And further, I have learn'd,
It is a kind of history.
Will you encounter the house? my niece is desirous
There is no hope that ever I will stay,
How shall this bisson multitude digest
Who's there, I trow! Come near the house, I pray you.
Take thou no scorn to wear the horn;
And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
Cog their hearts from them, and come home beloved
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
Farewell, every one.
written in eight and six.
The tedious day with sleep.
thing. The wills above be done! but I would fain
O Jesu, my lord, my lord!
Help Salisbury to make his testament:
And I am sick when I look not on you.
Ay, ay, ay, ay; 'tis too plain a case.
Now, sister, let us hear your firm resolve.
Courage, man; the hurt cannot be much.
The cat will mew and dog will have his day.
Sir, I will tell you;
his guts in his head, I'll tell you what I say of
Exeunt ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Myself and Beaufort had him in protection;
but my head and my neck. A fire good Curtis.
Why ask you? hear you aught of her in yours?
To fetch me trifles, and return again,
would be sorry should be thus foolishly lost at a
Richard the second here was hack'd to death;
A foe to the public weal: obey, I charge thee,
But let them measure us by what they will;
In such a point of weight, so near mine honour,--
So glad of this as they I cannot be,
His peace with Rome? What is that peace to me?
[Within]  What, ho, gossip Ford! what, ho!
In my respect than all the hairs above thee,
He that keeps nor crust nor crum,
In humours like the people of this world,
And witch the world with noble horsemanship.
Sweet ladies, will it please you sit? Sir Harry,
I know not if the day be ours or no;
Personates thee: and thy lopp'd branches point
The sword, the mace, the crown imperial,
Transform'd and weaken'd? hath Bolingbroke deposed
Let each man render me his bloody hand:
That makes me see, and cannot feed mine eye?
Ford's wife: use your art of wooing; win her to
I do not think but Desdemona's honest.
Lie down, and stray no farther: now all labour
Brave slip, sprung from the great Andronicus,
home full numbers. I find here that Don Peter hath
That I have reconciled your friends and you.
As how should it be so? how otherwise?--
Let me a little show it, even in this;
Can advise me like you: be to yourself
Shall be, and make new nations: he shall flourish,
For truth hath better deeds than words to grace it.
Exit
But mark'd him not a word. O, he is as tedious
any of his friends.
Or mangled shalt thou be by this my sword.
Which, being advanced, declines, and then men die.
These are not natural events; they strengthen
Nay, take my life and all; pardon not that:
That they may have their wages duly paid 'em,
Good morrow, little prince.
Uncle, what news?
By Sinel's death I know I am thane of Glamis;
Preserved the Britons, was the Romans' bane.'
Where be these knaves? What, no man at door
I know our country disposition well;
[Within]  Open the door, secure, foolhardy king:
And more, more strong, then lesser is my fear,
and gold and silver, is her grandsire upon his
There's his chamber, his house, his castle, his
Is not your father grown incapable
With thee and all thy best parts bound together,
I am the caitiff that do hold him to't;
yourself and I will not be there; and when they
Methought it was very sweet,
A man already.
Press not a falling man too far! 'tis virtue:
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day
Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for we'll
we make trifles of terrors, ensconcing ourselves
Care of your food and living; and, believe it,
horses: against the which he has imponed, as I take
Send me your prisoners with the speediest means,
Drawing all things to it. I'll go in and weep,--
Be theme and hearing ever, was in this Britain
counsellor, or no?
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
willingly, let him make a carbonado of me. I like
O, let me think on Hastings, and be gone
The centre is not big enough to bear
Enter DON PEDRO, DON JOHN, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, and BALTHASAR
Who are the rest?
My blood for your rude brawls doth lie a-bleeding;
We give thee up our guiltless blood to drink.
As I am clear from treason to my sovereign:
And leaving so his service, follow you,
doubtless, and of antiquity too; bawd-born.
I will tell thee wonders.
Enter EDGAR
Yet they do wink and yield, as love is blind and enforces.
majesty, and your great-uncle Edward the Plack
I have full cause of weeping; but this heart
My most redoubted father,
The fellow has good judgment.
Sirrah, fetch drier logs:
Pass by and curse thy fill, but pass and stay
Is the determined respite of my wrongs:
SCENE II. Rome. The house of LEPIDUS.
Only to stick it in their children's sight
His uncle York; where I first bow'd my knee
And all the troops of English after him.
There is cold meat i' the cave; we'll browse on that,
The man grows mad: away with him! Come, come, sir.
withers are unwrung.
not the man that he would gladly make show to the
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
As I for praise alone now seek to spill
And then he runs straight and even.
For ere thou canst report I will be there,
Lord cardinal, I will follow Eleanor,
No, Caius Marcius;
Nor no witchcraft charm thee!
To Bona, sister to the King of France.
To join with witches and the help of hell!
if thou account'st it shame. lay it on me;
An you mean to mock me after, you should not have
Than I can lay it down in likelihood.
Now I perceive the devil understands Welsh;
Fie, fie, Gratiano! where are all the rest?
The stronger part of it by her own letters, which
Bid them come near.
That same Diomed's a false-hearted rogue, a most
Between compulsion and a brave respect!
To them the legions garrison'd in Gailia,
Didst thou but know the inly touch of love,
As war were hoodwink'd.
I bade her, if her fortunes ever stood
thee; else thou diest in thine unthankfulness, and
How he received you, let me be resolved.
'Tis present death I beg; and one thing more
they ne'er come but I look to be washed. Master, I
Down, ladies; let us shame him with our knees.
And therefore red, that would avoid dispraise,
Of all say'd yet, I wish thee happiness!
And we'll consign thereto. Will you, fair sister,
And you are darken'd in this action, sir,
They think my little stomach to the war
That was my wife's?
[Aside]  Hortensio, say thou wilt see the tailor paid.
the women: but, for my part, she is my kinswoman; I
Why, this is like the mending of highways
M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.
O me! it is my mother. How now, good lady!
I know him well: you are very welcome, sir,
Exeunt Servants
By the world,
he is, and in the hottest day prognostication
Had our great palace the capacity
Against the undivulged pretence I fight
As if some planet had unwitted men--
Tell you the duke, shall prosper: bid him strive
SCENE I. Messina. POMPEY's house.
At Mariana's house to-night. Her cause and yours
Well, let them rest. Come hither, Catesby.
Till honour be bought up and no sword worn
Lavinia, live; outlive thy father's days,
father; for the king's son took me by the hand, and
And never yet did insurrection want
Not shine to-day! Why, what is that to me
But let me hear from you.
Exeunt
Will not your honours bear me company?
I put it to your care.
Exeunt
The marble pavement closes, he is enter'd
Your money!
And finding little comfort to relieve them,
Speak, shall I call her in? Believe my words,
So soon to bid good morrow to thy bed:
And further he desires to know of you,
The king's son have I landed by himself;
O Antony! O Antony!
But only she; and she deserves a lord
Confederate with the queen and her two sons:
so that here men are punished for before-breach of
You have little cause to say so.
Of love, of worldly matters and direction,
what art thou?
May it please you, madam, that he bid Helen come to
Alas, master, I know not.
The worthy Leonatus is in safety
Thou wast ever an obstinate heretic in the despite
Saint Denis to Saint Cupid! What are they
Thy beauty, that doth make me like thee well,
The livelong day, with patient expectation,
By marrying her which I must reach unto.
therefore it behoves men to be wary.
with him, if thou standest not i' the state of
I pray you, hear her speak:
on one that is neither known of thee nor knows thee!
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
In fear our motion will be mock'd or carp'd at,
Do me no slander, Douglas: by my life,
You shall ha' it, worthy sir.
Dear amity and everlasting love.
Enobarbus, Antony
as since he hath been allowed the name of; but I
To some retention and appointed guard;
To teeming foison, even so her plenteous womb
By looking back what I have left behind
If I break faith, this word shall speak for me;
To quell the rebels and their complices.
Which he corrects, then were he tyrannous;
This feather stirs; she lives! if it be so,
Where wilt thou lead me? speak; I'll go no further.
What in the contrary?
Master, shall I be porter at the gate?
Then, good my mother, let me know my father;
Had it pleased heaven
She did corrupt frail nature with some bribe,
These words of yours draw life-blood from my heart:
thereabout of it especially, where he speaks of
Upon her wit doth earthly honour wait,
A Daniel come to judgment! yea, a Daniel!
Both to defend himself and to approve
And yet we hear not of our son-in-law.
To do that office of thine own good will
O, no more, no more!
Ready. Name what part I am for, and proceed.
Inspire us with the spleen of fiery dragons!
It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
Might have found easy fines: but there to end
The sole drift of my purpose doth extend
Not know me yet?
One more, most welcome, makes my number more.
My gracious sovereign,
Now, by Saint Peter's Church and Peter too,
Perchance you think too much of so much pains?
Had you a healthful ear to hear of it.
The angry spot doth glow on Caesar's brow,
To feast so great a warrior in my house.
SCENE I. Forres. The palace.
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
These happen'd accidents; till when, be cheerful
Indeed, because you are a banish'd man,
Your father's heir must have your father's land.
Thou great commander, nerve and bone of Greece,
Look what you do, you do it still i' the dark.
To breathe this news; yet what I say is true.
I pray you, show my youth old Shylock's house.
Exit
If Cleopatra heard you, your reproof
Thanks, dear my lord.
These antique fables, nor these fairy toys.
One of our convent, and his confessor,
The which he promised. Do but encave yourself,
that I take for you is as easy as thanks. If I do
I know your lady does not love her husband;
We did observe. Cousin Aumerle,
Most meet
Being so great, I have no need to beg.
will do no hurt; it will wear the surplice of
For what hath broach'd this tumult but thy pride?
man denies, you are now bound to believe him.
So, prithee, go with me.
But let it be. Bring me to Antony.
A plot shall show us all a merry day.
witness. Here I hold your hand, here my cousin's.
Ah, women, women! come; we have no friend
Since we have locks to safeguard necessaries,
My everlasting doom of banishment.
Now, Esperance! Percy! and set on.
That rounds the mortal temples of a king
Of lineaments, of manners and of spirit;
amiss in them, you gods, make suitable for
under for another.
Peace, I say. Good even to you, friend.
I saw him once; he was a goodly king.
Is it fit I went to look upon him? is there no
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
Thou that so stoutly hast resisted me,
You perpetual-sober gods! I do proclaim
What I shall die to want. But this is trifling;
Here on my knee I beg mortality,
What mar you then, sir?
Edward and Richard, you shall stay with me;
Please you, gentlemen,
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the Courtezan, and others
'Tis death to me to be at enmity;
Turn all to serpents! Call the slave again:
Now, God be praised, that to believing souls
contemplation of my travels, in which my often
That thieves do pass on thieves? 'Tis very pregnant,
Thy natural magic and dire property,
No!
As fair as day.
I thought, at least, he would have said the king;
Though now you have no sea-cap on your head.
Black, fearful, comfortless and horrible.
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet
Prithee, listen well;
With those five talents.
Would by a good discourser lose some life,
And with a look so piteous in purport
Here's our chief guest.
Now, as thou lovest me, do him not that wrong
Let our best heads
They draw
knows no end of them. Well, that is the dowry of
break, your gaskins fall.
Advance our waving colours on the walls;
Kissing her
two tribunes:
With fiery quickness: therefore prepare thyself;
What, are you mad? I charge you, get you home.
Into his study of imagination,
With our discourse to make your grace to smile.
Sir Oliver Martext, you are well met: will you
In my school-days, when I had lost one shaft,
Enter POSTHUMUS and PHILARIO
Yea, but I doubt they will be too hard for us.
constant being won: they are burs, I can tell you;
Am I not i' the right, old Jephthah?
These two Antipholuses, these two so like,
To alter favour ever is to fear:
Speak not you for him; he's a traitor. Come;
Among which terms he used his lavish tongue
The gentry to this business. He creates
To try his strength, forsaketh yet the lists
And stay there, Dromio, till I come to thee.
Proclaims you for a man replete with mocks,
Will you, indeed?
Such an immodest raiment, if shame live
And that I love him not as I was wont.
For wooing here until I sweat again,
An honest man he is, and hates the slime
Most maculate thoughts, master, are masked under
And will you rent our ancient love asunder,
Since you are tongue-tied and so loath to speak,
Exit
O me, with what strict patience have I sat,
To thine own lips again.
A dog of the house of Montague moves me.
Be cheerful, Richmond; for the wronged souls
uncle-father and aunt-mother are deceived.
Under a compelling occasion, let women die; it were
Lewis and the Lady Bona send to him.
We could at once put us in readiness,
What is your name?
and more strange return.                  'HAMLET.'
Ay, that left pap,
I know you joy not in a love discourse.
And have you nuns no farther privileges?
Do you hear?
This is my king, York, I do not mistake;
Tis deadly sin to keep that oath, my lord,
and 'rests them; he, sir, that takes pity on decayed
wore it? I mean, in a sort.
The queen, my lord, is dead.
strength of my youth.
Whi ch, in their throng and press to that last hold,
Had baked thy blood and made it heavy-thick,
All preparation for a bloody siege
And cull'd these fiery spirits from the world,
His speedy taking off. As for the mercy
Look, here is writ 'kind Julia.' Unkind Julia!
And make a moral of the devil himself.
A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a
to, you are a woman, go.
Did the sea cast it up?
That thought he could do more, a very little
By forfeiting a traitor and a coward.
The carved-bone face on a flask.
holding up of hands, with countenances of such
The purpose why, is here: in which disguise,
Not I	I must be found:
Shall shine from far
Runs far before them. Good my sovereign,
In earnest, it's true; I heard a senator speak it.
I' the eyes of heaven and to you; I mean,
I think there's no man speaks better Welsh.
Christ's mother helps me, else I were too weak.
Draw thy sword,
Present our services to a fine new prince
And to him in his barge with fervor hies.
With all my heart, I'll gossip at this feast.
Hold thee, from this, for ever. The barbarous Scythian,
To equal mine!--was it not thus? what say you?
at the next turning of all, on your left; marry, at
Enter HOLOFERNES, for Judas; and MOTH, for Hercules
Did I my soul and fortunes consecrate.
resting here, accuses him of letters he had formerly
Though some of you with Pilate wash your hands
cause between an orange wife and a fosset-seller;
A dearer merit, not so deep a maim
The flower of Europe for his chivalry;
But he as he, the heavier for a whore.
Like the brass cannon; let the brow o'erwhelm it
endeavour be so loved and the performance so loathed?
we some strange Indian with the great tool come to
And stolen the impression of her fantasy
In shape no bigger than an agate-stone
Here, hard by: stand close.
That I did so when I was first assured.
'Fair' in 'all hail' is foul, as I conceive.
To do some fatal execution?
Ay, but these rags are no part of the duke:
To weaken and discredit our exposure,
three ages since: but I think now 'tis not to be
Who knows not he is dead! who knows he is?
Thy mother's dead.
'Twere childish weakness to lament or fear.
The mistress which I serve quickens what's dead
equally to me disloyal.'
But let me hear the letter of your friend.
SCENE IV. Country near Birnam wood.
is a fool, and, as aforesaid, Patroclus is a fool.
That I may pass this doing.
Since the first father wore it: this ring he holds
That the false housewife Fortune break her wheel,
boys behind 'em, loose shot, delivered such a shower
In my chamber-window lies a book: bring it hither
Deny me not, I prithee, gentle Joan.
The more you beat me, I will fawn on you:
'Sblood!--
Adieu, my Lord; Sir Valentine is coming.
Kills himself
My lord and you were then at Mantua:--
I know not at whose suit he is arrested well;
But here I am to speak what I do know.
Whereat, with blade, with bloody blameful blade,
Where learned you that oath, fool?
Enter SICINIUS, BRUTUS, and an AEdile
your mother's cat had but kittened, though yourself
But I must needs to the Tower, my lords?
When thou didst crown his warlike brows with paper
I will believe thou hast a mind that suits
RICHARD
Ay, gentle Thurio: for you know that love
to give her, but have given largely to many to know
Upon the Thracian tyrant in his tent,
Into your favour.
And often up and down my sons were toss'd,
With chaces. And we understand him well,
The worthiness of praise distains his worth,
Cassio's a proper man: let me see now:
My very worthy cousin, fairly met!
Save back to England, all the world's my way.
To seal the accuser's lips. Get thee glass eyes;
The common voice do cry it shall be so.
Which I dispersed, they all have met again
That I have given no answer all this while;
And yesterday the bird of night did sit
bears will not bite one another when they meet.
To look upon the holy sun, to have
SCENE III. The plains near Rouen.
'Faith, to say truth, brown and not brown.
I'll die for't but some woman had the ring.
What sudden anger's this? how have I reap'd it?
--a most contagious treason come to light, look
Cease; no more.
And indeed, sir, there are cozeners abroad;
Of blessed sanctuary! not for all this land
indeed, my father did something smack, something
When you and I met at Saint Alban's last,
Let Rome be thus Inform'd.
Pard, or boar with bristled hair,
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
Enter ROSALIND, SILVIUS, and PHEBE
He ne'er pays after-debts, take it before;
Cleopatra,--
Flourish. Enter the FRENCH KING, the DAUPHIN, the DUKES of BERRI and BRETAGNE, the Constable, and others
That I stand up, and have ingenious feeling
A soothsayer bids you beware the ides of March.
one-trunk-inheriting slave; one that wouldst be a
Was my father a traitor, mother?
shalt see an answerable sequestration:--put but
Well met, my lord chamberlain.
friends, drove him into this melancholy.
Or memorise another Golgotha,
Let them not cease, but with a din confused
England, bound in with the triumphant sea
So minutes, hours, days, months, and years,
Speak and look back, and pry on every side,
I will give thee for it a thousand pound: ask me
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
So thou, that hast no unkind mate to grieve thee,
thy five men, and if I do not leave you all as dead
courted now with a double occasion, gold and a means
medicinable to me: I am sick in displeasure to him,
Here is a place reserved, sir.
I do well believe you.
why, this fellow has banished two on's daughters,
not.
From a well-experienced archer hits the mark
What, dear sir,
If e'er thou stand at mercy of my sword,
Had I but time--as this fell sergeant, death,
But, host, doth this Sir Proteus that we talk on
As I have done, thou wouldst be more pitiful.
Such as I can, twice o'er, I'll weep and sigh;
Do as I bid thee, or rather do thy pleasure;
Was not that Cassio parted from my wife?
Stand for your own; unwind your bloody flag;
Sir Valour dies; cries 'O, enough, Patroclus;
I have a hundred milch-kine to the pail,
He by the senate is accit'd home
One half of me is yours, the other half yours,
He was your enemy, ever spake against
That I cannot look through. Away, I prithee;
And fits the mounting spirit like myself,
The noble spirits to arms, they did perform
The god of love,
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
To a mother's part belongs. He turns away:
Banish'd the new-made bridegroom from the city,
And oftentimes, to win us to our harm,
Strike off this score of absence. Sweet Bianca,
there: I will go.
'Tis I must make conclusion
By words or blows here let us win our right.
What men of name resort to him?
As ever Beatrice shall couch upon?
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
We hope to find you our friend; and therefore give
What, none?
Mine were the very cipher of a function,
Find written in the margent of his eyes.
My lord should to the heavens be contrary,
And we are stay'd for at Bassanio's feast.
To plot, contrive, or complot any ill
For the latter end of his name.
Shame on himself! for my desert is honour:
The swiftest harts have posted you by land;
The bird of wonder dies, the maiden phoenix,
Is of a king become a banish'd man,
Well, madam.
It is in my scabbard: shall I draw it?
To the first giver.'
Unfought withal, but I will sell my dukedom,
To gather from thee: haply thou mayst inform
reason. Come on, Trinculo, let us sing.
There, my lord:
That, rubbing the poor itch of your opinion,
And I will take thy word: yet if thou swear'st,
How is it with Titus Lartius?
Bring in thy ranks, but leave without thy rage:
My lord, your son was gone before I came.
And shall these labours and these honours die?
Thither must I, and here I leave you, sir.
Stay you, good gentlemen. Look you pale, mistress?
Do we, my lord?
Next, if I be appointed for the place,
[Aside]  I see she's like to have neither cap nor gown.
Your face hath got five hundred pound a year,
While I stand fooling here, his Jack o' the clock.
The Jew shall have all justice; soft! no haste:
And, by my two faiths and troths, my lord, I spoke mine.
He has no more knowledge in Hibocrates and Galen,
Even at the base of Pompey's statua,
Enter OLIVIA and Attendants
To overcome him: in that beastly fury
Till he communicate his parts to others:
She turn'd to folly, and she was a whore.
You shall outlive the lady whom you serve.
small like a woman.
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is
Come, try upon yourselves what you have seen me.
If little faults, proceeding on distemper,
My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys
It is enough; I'll think upon the questions:
O, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound,
Brethren and sisters of the hold-door trade,
me more wit than ever I learned before in my life;
Belike for want of rain, which I could well
The expectancy and rose of the fair state,
The English force, so please you.
Of thousands that had struck anointed kings
I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile. Come.
Runs not this speech like iron through your blood?
Why thou art thus incensed. Let him go, Gertrude.
Will quench the wonder of her infamy:
What is the matter with our cousin now?
But I, who never knew how to entreat,
Write thou good niece; and here display, at last,
I must leave you.
For though you lay here in this goodly chamber,
Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
Why, thus it shall become
Mine and your master, with his own hand gave me;
of letter did.
How are we park'd and bounded in a pale,
Yes, Caliban her son.
Ingratitude, more strong than traitors' arms,
Is she to be buried in Christian burial that
And lend my best attention. What's thy name?
I did, my lord, but loath am to produce
I dare do all that may become a man;
Knights,
Go quick away; the story of my life
You shall command me, sir.
Call Coriolanus.
And now declare, sweet stem from York's great stock,
name; I have done.
thee, Hal, I knew nothing; and now am I, if a man
Alarums, excursions. Enter the BASTARD, with AUSTRIA'S head
Worthily purchased take my daughter: but
That profit's yet to come 'tween me and you.
Giving it to KATHARINE
Goes all decorum.
being made,
You cram these words into mine ears against
master, be not afraid.
SCENE IV. The same. Hall in the palace.
Exeunt
Hold then my sword, and turn away thy face,
O, my lord, my lord! the sheriff with a most
[Aside]  I had rather lose the battle than that sister
serve me! Why should his mistress, who was made by
If you but said so, 'twere as deep with me:
As if that luck, in very spite of cunning,
Disturb him not; let him pass peaceably.
But after many ceremonies done,
bare friendship, without security. Here's three
High order in this great solemnity.
For who lived king, but I could dig his grave?
insert again my haud credo for a deer.
Witness the fortune he hath had in France.
Side-stitches that shall pen thy breath up; urchins
I grant I am a woman; but withal
You judge it straight a thing impossible
I charge thee waft me safely cross the Channel.
'Tis very like: he hath the failing sickness.
As you in worth dispraise Sir Valentine.
What did thy song bode, lady?
As roused with rage with rage doth sympathize,
Untimely smother'd in their dusky graves.
But Pandarus,--O gods, how do you plague me!
That shall make answer to such questions
Being nothing like the noble duke my father:
What lady-she her lord. You'll stay?
They call him Doricles; and boasts himself
And parted thus you and your argument.
Tell him my fury shall abate, and I the crowns will take.
And very wisely threat before you sting.
Then speak at once what is it thou demand'st.
But wherefore do I tell these news to thee?
To sin's rebuke and my Creator's praise.
I did not think
By heaven, the wonder in a mortal eye!
In this our pinching cave, shall we discourse
No, you shall pardon me.
Give me my robe, put on my crown; I have
He searcheth his pockets, and findeth certain papers
What if this mixture do not work at all?
Ipswich and Oxford! one of which fell with him,
Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
than a Christian or an ordinary man has: but I am a
In mine own comforts. I prithee, good Iago,
If with myself I hold intelligence
I know you are more clement than vile men,
There shall be order for't.
Is fully out.
If she be black, and thereto have a wit,
Which came from one that's of a neutral heart,
If it assume my noble father's person,
murderer dead,
And turn'd my captive state to liberty,
sleekly combed their blue coats brushed and their
And what hear there for welcome but my groans?
Nay, pray you, sir,--
For if the king like not the comedy,
Advise me where I may have such a ladder.
Ay, my good lord: our time does call upon 's.
In faith,
Some two months hence my will shall here be made:
Which sometime they have used with fearful flight,
she grew round-wombed, and had, indeed, sir, a son
As often as I guess'd.
And bow'd her hand to teach her fingering;
To give you gentle pass; for, if we may,
One of thy eyes and thy cheek's side struck off!
The one is filling still, never complete;
[Within]  Your wife, sir knave! go get you from the door.
Within your house, to make mine eye the witness
the third in your bosom: the very butcher of a silk
Scorn and derision never come in tears:
Should a villain say so,
He'll then instruct us of this body. Young one,
To draw conditions of a friendly peace;
And I have thrust myself into this maze,
The fairy land buys not the child of me.
I'll not serve him; he's not valiant.
I do.
Makes me the better to confer with thee.
The want thereof makes thee abominable:
My old bones ache: here's a maze trod indeed
I may not go without you to the kings.
You would not use a gentle lady so;
I will not be put out of countenance.
With viewing of the town: there shall you have me.
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
Exeunt
And loyal wife.
philosophical persons, to make modern and familiar,
You are the happier woman.
He will chastise me.
finding him, and relish it with good observance.
At my petition; I beseech you, rather
Know, then,
I'll be before thee.
And thus she is deliver'd.
Could I come near your beauty with my nails,
One dowle that's in my plume: my fellow-ministers
The leading of the vaward.
matter: I'll ne'er be drunk whilst I live again,
Now He that made me knows I see thee ill;
Well, how then? come, roundly, roundly.
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
Whiles his most mighty father on a hill
bewitchment of some popular man and give it
Methinks he seems no bigger than his head:
A common slave--you know him well by sight--
Sir, she came in great with child; and longing,
To soar with his light feathers, and so bound,
About our squares of battle, were enow
We two have sworn shall come.
That's hereby.
Nothing of that wonderful promise, to read him by
which gentlemen have.
That the old carlot once was master of.
Are register'd where every day I turn
Pistol!
That woe is me to think upon thy woes
Let's consult together against this greasy knight.
'Tis but the shadow of a wife you see,
liberty into bondage: I will deal in poison with
What is't, Ophelia, be hath said to you?
Come, Hippolyta.
It is enough I may but call her mine.
How in my words soever she be shent,
Thanks, gentlemen, to all; all have done well.
What horse? a roan, a crop-ear, is it not?
Envelope you, good Provost! Who call'd here of late?
But are my brother's powers set forth?
And I'll sing it.
ready here hard by in the brew-house: and when I
Your answer, sir, is enigmatical:
Now Romeo is beloved and loves again,
Then lays his finger on his temple, straight
By God, I cannot flatter; I do defy
What both you spur and stop.
It wounds thine honour that I speak it now--
Enter SIR ANDREW
here thou viewest, beholdest, surveyest, or seest;
Of stronger earth than others. My mother bows;
Drown desperate sorrow in dead Edward's grave,
A trumpet within
Methinks the wind hath spoke aloud at land;
That in such haste I sent to seek his master!
DON
And potent injuries.
I said, and said no more but what my thoughts
Having my country's peace and brothers' loves.
Exeunt GOWER and FLUELLEN
To lay the blame upon her own despair,
cowardly rascals that ran from the battle ha' done
What a long night is this! I will not change my
God and our good cause fight upon our side;
And I with him.
For, though before his face I speak the words
hour, I will tell true. Let me see: Spurio, a
Doubly divorced! Bad men, you violate
God save the king! although I be not he;
[Aside]  His steel was in debt; it went o' the
an unclean mind carries virtuous qualities, there
I'll prove the contrary, if you'll hear me speak.
But, since it serves my purpose, I will venture
Than Bolingbroke to England. Lords, farewell.
With oath kept waking and with brawling fed:
Gave me my being and my father first,
valiant master would destroy thee! I do not lie.
To swear him in the justice of his cause.
where's that?
This man, with lime and rough-cast, doth present
For what, lieutenant? for well using me?
strange guest he has here.
This comfort with the like! But I have words
Two mightier troops than that the Dauphin led,
Colour her working with such deadly wounds;
If thou hadst not been born the worst of men,
Deck'd with five flower-de-luces on each side;
Is almost finish'd, and her epitaphs
Peruse this paper, madam.
Than violentest contrariety.
'Tis now dead midnight, and by eight to-morrow
And the huge army of the world's desires,--
You shall not seal to such a bond for me:
Looks with such ferret and such fiery eyes
But thou wilt be avenged on my misdeeds,
The ambassador is silenced?
And stand upon my common part with those
Go one, and call the Jew into the court.
Thou wast born to conquer my country.
I have told my lord of you; he is coming down to you.
If he do not dote on her upon this, I will never
Do crave admittance to your majesty.
Unless my hand and strength could equal them.
With liver burning hot. Prevent, or go thou,
untuneable.
O, but, sir,
Was ever gentleman thus grieved as I?
To parley with the sole inheritor
If their singing answer your saying, by my faith,
They take for natural father. The game is up.
For no dislike i' the world against the person
For thine own bowels, which do call thee sire,
The petty wrens of Tarsus will fly hence,
You sheep, and I pasture: shall that finish the jest?
Because I knew the man, were slighted off.
I'll take the better care, but if you will not,
And whispers to his pillow, as to him,
'tis a playing-day, I see.
Why, so I can, sir, but I will not now.
A neat-herd's daughter, and my Leonatus
Exit
To bring you thus together, 'tis no sin,
Whose passage, vex'd with thy impediment,
What a wicked beast was I to disfurnish myself
Why brother Rivers, are you yet to learn
[Reads]
[To POLIXENES]                  Sir, welcome:
Peace to this meeting, wherefore we are met!
Who hadst deserved more than a prison.
Nay, and you will not, sir, I'll take my heels.
Enter one with water
And let my grave-stone be your oracle.
Be angry, and dispatch. O, couldst thou speak,
How came it that the absent duke had not either
Not all the water in the rough rude sea
Our solemn hymns to sullen dirges change,
Can never turn the swan's black legs to white,
What, you will not? Prithee, tell my master what a
the devils of hell be drawn in little, and Legion
Second to none that lives here in the city:
[Rising]  My words fly up, my thoughts remain below:
Never talk on't;
Right noble Burgundy,
l'avez promis, il est content de vous donner la
yourself that which I am sure you do not know, or
Dare mate a sounder man than Surrey can be,
Quick Cupid's post that comes so mannerly.
you for yourselves?
A better guiding spirit! What needs these hands?
But get thee gone: I shall be there before thee.
What sayest thou, bully Bottom?
other circumstance. Good morrow; for, as I take it,
All studies here I solemnly defy,
The fatal colours of our striving houses:
Thou hadst an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
I say thy husband: dost understand the word?
any convenience, an he were double and double a
Not unlike,
They have it very oft that have it not:
O'erglanced the articles: pleaseth your grace
Through the ashes of my chance: wert thou a man,
I am hurt.
I dare meet Surrey in a wilderness,
Knows at what time to promise, when to pay.
If they miscarry, we miscarry too.
Here, villain; drawn and ready. Where art thou?
Yea, my good lord.
Which now goes too free-footed.
Was kinder to his father than my daughters
Wherein I spake of most disastrous chances,
He meant to lay upon: and his own letter,
cause is, calling both the parties knaves. You are
with working.
Whence is that knocking?
That this remotion of the duke and her
I met a courier, one mine ancient friend;
What, rouse thee, man! thy Juliet is alive,
Is death mis-term'd: calling death banishment,
As waggish boys in game themselves forswear,
I'll tell ye more.
by mine honour,
Exeunt all except APEMANTUS
have possessed her.
Young Ned, for thee, thine uncles and myself
take me from this world with treachery and devise
Please it your majesty, I have done already:
And let the labouring bark climb hills of seas
He hath, my lord.
swear by this bottle how thou camest hither. I
Go, after, after, cousin Buckingham.
Their weapons like to lightning came and went;
By holy crosses, where she kneels and prays
All o'erjoy'd,
He might return to vasty Tartar back,
And when he sleeps will she do what she list.
Mistrust it not: for, sure, AEacides
If thou read this, O Caesar, thou mayst live;
Preservers of my throne. Woe is my heart
Deny thy father and refuse thy name;
O most profane coxcomb!
His mistress' picture; which by his tongue
Nay, then I'll run.
No loving token to his majesty?
Dispatch, my lord; the duke would be at dinner:
Were it all yours to give it in a breath,
A maid! and be so martial!
At supper.
The fortunes and affairs of noble Brutus
Ay; and you'll look pale
If drink rock not his cradle.
And scants us with a single famish'd kiss,
my hope is better, and so look to thyself. Thy
Instance, O instance! strong as Pluto's gates;
She stripp'd it from her arm; I see her yet;
Most noble! in the presence of thy corse?
To be so moral when he shall endure
Framed in the prodigality of nature,
These are my ministers, and come with me.
Is Talbot slain? then I will slay myself,
Exit
Strike up the drum towards Athens! Farewell, Timon:
send ministers to me, asses, and do all they can to
No marvel, you have so bestirred your valour. You
Fled from his father, from his hopes, and with
Enter HOTSPUR, solus, reading a letter
This seems a fair deserving, and must draw me
Nor for my manhood, honesty, or wisdom,
Myself by with a needle, that I might prick
untied and every thing about you demonstrating a
As there is no firm reason to be render'd,
Lord Lucius, and you princes of the Goths,
Will hear your idle scorns, continue then,
Thou, wretched boy, that didst consort him here,
It is well done, and fitting for a princess
He'll breed revengement and a scourge for me;
His curses, then from bitterness of soul
Enter his chamber, view his breathless corpse,
Is fresh about me.
Thou shalt not sigh, nor hold thy stumps to heaven,
As he regards his aged father's life.
Examine other beauties.
Though he had twinn'd with me, both at a birth,
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
for him, that he hath wrote this to feel my
A nursery to our gentry, who are sick
It is my son, young Harry Percy,
The king of England; when we know the king.
Lest I might be too rash:
revenge? If we are like you in the rest, we will
Say that she be; yet Valentine thy friend
thankful to thee shall be my study, and my profit
That you must teach me. But let me conjure you, by
Coy looks with heart-sore sighs; one fading moment's mirth
For costs and charges in transporting her!
Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou wilt have
But for the rest, you tell a pedigree
[Reads]  'So it is, besieged with sable-coloured
Exit
Who must we answer?
Rail on the Lord's enointed: strike, I say!
Enter ROSS and an old Man
Give pardon to my speech:
And make this marriage to be solemnized.
Began to crack: twice then the trumpets sounded,
Before my daughter told me--what might you,
We two, my lord,
I pray you, give me leave to go from hence;
worth another word, else I'ld call you knave. I leave you.
Nay, but ask my opinion too of that.
Enter TROILUS
And that is Claudio: I know him by his bearing.
Which is too nigh your person. Heaven preserve you!
To stop the foreign spirits, but they come,
To imitate them; faults that are rich are fair.
Melt and lament for her.
What means your grace?
That troop with majesty. Ourself, by monthly course,
daughter nor my sister; we are gone else. Sir, I
Thou'rt mad to say it:
'Shall'!
And telling me the sovereign'st thing on earth
Of an unthrifty knave, and presently
I have been feasting with mine enemy,
For making me, so young, so old a widow!
Help, ye citizens!
No.
For my part, I have walk'd about the streets,
But faults so countenanced, that the strong statutes
He must observe their mood on whom he jests,
And such a one do I profess myself. For, sir,
Will not sustain it.
ACT V
And I'll grow friend with danger. Wear this sleeve.
Who do you speak to, 'Why blame you me to love you?'
His spongy officers, who shall bear the guilt
By some vile forfeit of untimely death.
To Eltham will I, where the young king is,
Wherein? and what taxation? My lord cardinal,
Enter the KING
To second Proculeius?
Go to, sir; you were beaten in Italy for picking a
But tell not me; I know, Antonio
That goddess blind,
Despite of suit, to see a lady's face.
To do I know not what: but it sufficeth
A dollar.
Cried, 'Via! we will do't, come what will come;'
Forestall prescience, and esteem no act
Exit
Therefore, that I may conquer fortune's spite
She embraces him.
our unlawful intents? We shall not then have his
It were well
Poor Desdemona! I am glad thy father's dead:
I'll in to counsel them; haply my presence
Nor mark prodigious, such as are
Thersites, my lord.
Deserved it too; and then the boy, his clerk,
Go, be gone.
At mine own house, good lady.
Sir?
'Twixt my extremes and me this bloody knife
For he hath been five thousand years a boy.
as ancient writers do report, doth defile; so doth
O my dear Cassio! my sweet Cassio! O Cassio,
For I myself will hunt this wolf to death.
She was false as water.
To tell you where he lodges, is to tell you where I lie.
trade-fallen, the cankers of a calm world and a
compound of villanous smell that ever offended nostril.
Enter PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and BIGOT
Thou antic death, which laugh'st us here to scorn,
Thou losest thy old smell.
art thou not drowned, Stephano? I hope now thou art
Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus' face.
So, Dolabella,
a score of villains: if there sit twelve women at
Of this strange nature that a thing inseparate
SCENE V. Mytilene. A street before the brothel.
And, when I spy advantage, claim the crown,
and lie under Mount Pelion. Well, I will find you
[Advancing]     What is he whose grief
So, ere you find where light in darkness lies,
Moon-calf, speak once in thy life, if thou beest a
Yes, my lord, and of very valiant approof.
When neither are alive.
I should but teach him how to tell my story.
No? then I well perceive you all not nigh
We hold our town for neither, yet for both.
Believe't, that we'll do any thing for gold.
Thy wife is proud; she holdeth thee in awe,
Over the king in's tongue.
Not so, sir; under correction, sir; I hope it is not so.
As letting her pass so: had I spoke with her,
Beholding him, plucks comfort from his looks:
I am glad to see your honour in good health.
I am sorry
That she would never put it from her finger,
Leaving free things and happy shows behind:
As looks the mother on her lowly babe
I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet; these words
Varies again; the grisly north
I beseech you, sir, look in this gentleman's face.
Methinks I see this hurly all on foot:
gives her folly motion and advantage: and now she's
With shears his thread of silk.
With the arm'd rest, courtiers and beauteous freedom,
I'll rather dwell in my necessity.
Cheer'd up the drooping army; and himself,
I do not like the office:
Preferment falls on him that cuts him off.
Which fault lies on the hazards of all husbands
That I have, lady: if it will please Caesar
I must unto the road, to disembark
When Prospero is destroyed.
My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets!
Remorse from power: and, to speak truth of Caesar,
ACT IV
I'll be revenged on the whole pack of you.
her heart but the tyranny of her sorrows takes all
sport to the upshot. Come by and by to my chamber.
If wolves had at thy gate howl'd that stern time,
Exit
What, household stuff?
Confronts your city's eyes, your winking gates;
Look behind you, my lord.
half of my dowry.
the duchess and the ladies, that they would shriek;
minds: methinks I could not die any where so
Nay, now dispatch; 'twas I that stabb'd young Edward,
Lest his ungovern'd rage dissolve the life
Were I a man, a duke, and next of blood,
No, nor to-morrow, not till I please myself.
All on a heap, like to a slaughter'd lamb,
That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow
A very noble youth: mark.
Of that dark hour. Resolve yourselves apart:
Under my battlements. Come, you spirits
I like your silence, it the more shows off
Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanor!
Yet thus far we are one in fortunes: both
will seek satisfaction of you.
'Tis sweet at first to acquire,--after this process,
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
So long as heaven and nature lengthens it.
Je te prie, m'enseignez: il faut que j'apprenne a
Whither to go and what to bear with us;
With Margery Jourdain, the cunning witch,
Commit them to the fire!
DON
What I command, I'll rack thee with old cramps,
He and myself
Yet it shall be tempest-tost.
Usurp'd from you and your progenitors.
Then give me leave to go.
A man of thy profession and degree;
Time shall unfold what plaited cunning hides:
Thy love ne'er alter till thy sweet life end!
They were not with Bassanio in his ship.
Alas, what does this gentleman conceive?
But speak, Egeus; is not this the day
To say 'King Richard:' alack the heavy day
And leave not one alive, I live in hell.
And they watch too. Now, 'mongst this flock of drunkards,
I would you had kneel'd, my lord, to ask me mercy,
Your goods that lay at host, sir, in the Centaur.
I will proclaim my name about the field:
Most learned judge! A sentence! Come, prepare!
But he's in a suit of buff which 'rested him, that can I tell.
There's some in hope.
Well, sir.
o' the coxcombs with a stick, and cried 'Down,
This night methinks is but the daylight sick;
And that my master slew him.
Methinks my lord should be religious
And therefore take the present time,
Feast at my house, and he shall feast with them.
'Tis certain there's not a boy left alive; and the
As will a chestnut in a farmer's fire?
More welcome is the stroke of death to me
I do believe you think what now you speak;
Your grace's pardon, and I hope I had it.
After your own sense, yea, though our proper son
Marry, were they.
And this is Geffrey's: in the name of God
of his Desdemona; who let us not therefore blame:
Greater he shall not be; if he serve God,
Till I have brought him to his wits again,
Wilt thou not speak to me?
deliver thy indignation to him by word of mouth.
I'll wait upon your honour.
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day,
SCENE XII. Egypt. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
And therefore tell her I return great thanks,
Thou art past the tyrant's stroke;
CLEOPATRA kneels
For being now a favourer to the Briton,
And be in debt to none--yet, more to move you,
Sweet lords, sweet lovers, O, let us embrace!
I shall discover all: I'll bring thee word
Which was declining on the milky head
No, no, my lord,
Enter ACHILLES
And see how he will take it at your hands.
beard on his face: I had rather lie in the woollen.
That stripp'd her from his benediction, turn'd her
Dismay'd not this
garters of an indifferent knit: let them curtsy
Drove back again unto my native clime?
the feast,--
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Wherein my hope is I shall so prevail
Than feed it with such over-roasted flesh.
In short and musty straw? Alack, alack!
Unless he live until he be a man.
In very likeness of a roasted crab,
That made the air unwholesome, when you cast
Knowest thou Gower?
no more women but Fulvia, then had you indeed a cut,
I am far better born than is the king,
I pray thee, gentle keeper, stay by me;
To be revenged on Rome and Saturnine.
Your wife would give you little thanks for that,
Exeunt
Till now I never knew thee!
Catesby, o'erlook the walls.
For this is he that moves both wind and tide.
Is he at Master Ford's already, think'st thou?
Nay, stand thou back, I will not budge a foot:
His little speaking shows his love but small.
What, shall we suffer this? let's pluck him down:
A trifle, some eight-penny matter.
I cannot speak, nor think
As rich shall Romeo's by his lady's lie;
Put forth disorder'd twigs; her fallow leas
Nature's; who perceiveth our natural wits too dull
Say to the king, I would attend his leisure
What's to do here, Thomas tapster? let's withdraw.
And, toward the education of your daughters,
Why I should welcome such a guest as grief,
And I will love thee, and prefer thee too.
May make a peaceful and a sweet retire
honourable gentleman. Good Servilius, will you
But stay, O spite!
His guard have brought him thither.
Would blow me to an ague, when I thought
His grandfather was Lionel Duke of Clarence,
It is almost morning,
I'll drown you in the malmsey-butt within.
So sore as keeping safe Nerissa's ring.
Yet here Prince Edward stands, King Henry's son.
Pray you, content you.
Duke Humphrey has done a miracle to-day.
And pity to the general wrong of Rome--
By my consent, we'll even let them alone.
To be direct and honest is not safe.
kind o' thing than a fool: and yet I would not be
I have no mind of feasting forth to-night:
midnight is to be up betimes; and 'diluculo
Unless some fit or frenzy do possess her:
That she is living,
For did I but suspect a fearful man
Go hang yourself, you naughty mocking uncle!
Sir, I know him, and I love him.
Sir Humphrey Stafford and h is brother's death
This news, I think, hath turn'd your weapon's edge;
O, these deliberate fools! when they do choose,
Enter SHYLOCK and LAUNCELOT
Cause they take vengeance of such kind of men.
I was as willing to grapple as he was to board.
To find out you. Who's that? Metellus Cimber?
If we do fear this body hath a tail
My fear to hope, my sorrows unto joys,
Well have you argued, sir; and, for your pains,
This woman lock'd me out this day from dinner:
To shame the guise o' the world, I will begin
remembered. My clown, who wants but something to
The other, though unfinish'd, yet so famous,
your letter.
Many a man his life hath sold
By such a day and hour.
Ha, my brave emperor!
Shall be to you, as us, like glorious.
I am a simple maid, and therein wealthiest,
It irks his heart he cannot be revenged.
Of the whole state: as, of late days, our neighbours,
ANTIPHOLUS
Even by the squandering glances of the fool.
Give me this maid, your daughter?
conclude he is in love.
Like a bold champion, I assume the lists,
I will not do thee so much wrong to wake thee:
Are worse than devils.
Sweet, do not scorn her so.
Why not by the hand, sir? How have I offended?
To EDGAR
Before I came. Marry, thus much I have learnt:
I got possession of Julietta's bed:
But not remember'd in thy epitaph!
Too good to be so and too bad to live,
Hear the king's pleasure, cardinal: who commands you
I will.
Accuse some innocent and forswear myself,
What was the impediment that broke this off?
Health to your lordships.
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino;
I cannot rightly say. But since King Pericles,
doe?
The perilous narrow ocean parts asunder:
With a reed voice, and turn two mincing steps
look you, and bid me eat my leek: it was in place
How have you known the miseries of your father?
Their royal blood enchafed, as the rudest wind,
Let nobody blame him; his scorn I approve,-
By heaven, I think there's no man is secure
considering the weather, a taller man than I will
my two mistresses: what a beast am I to slack it!
Thou makest the triumviry, the corner-cap of society,
We have some old crab-trees here
taste again but by the displanting of Cassio. So
Let's make no stay.
Which traitor, thou wouldst have me answer to.
Peace, Tranio!
Than such as most seem yours: I say, I come
And yet I am sure you are not satisfied
The fore-recited practises; whereof
Blows in your face. I fear your disposition:
Of nature and of nations speak aloud
the beggarly thanks. Come, sing; and you that will
Be not afraid; she shall not harm thee, Helena.
And so proceed accordingly.
Say as you think, and speak it from your souls,
If souls guide vows, if vows be sanctimonies,
I had rather pray a month with mutton and porridge.
Enter a Messenger
To the monument!
See how I am bewitch'd; behold mine arm
Of the duke's confessor, John de la Car,
No cause!
I think, but dare not speak.
Nothing: I am not taught to make any thing.
With that malignant cause wherein the honour
Where it may see itself. This is not strange at all.
Not so allured to feed.
Exeunt Shepherd and Clown
Two may keep counsel, putting one away?
'Break up the senate till another time,
All for our vantage. Then, in God's name, march:
Drum within
Take heed o' the foul fiend: obey thy parents;
Is to come in:
DON
Methought I heard a voice cry 'Sleep no more!
But Brutus makes mine greater than they are.
Prosper it with thee! Go thou farther off;
Which issued from my other angel husband
Never greater,
And, throwing but shows of service on their lords,
One Isabel, a sister, desires access to you.
That as his worthy deeds did claim no less
Pardon, old father, my mistaking eyes,
She is not dead at Tarsus, as she should have been,
Put pardon, father Nestor, were your days
As he shall think by our true diligence
Take heed, have open eye, for thieves do foot by night:
To hear the piteous moan that Rutland made
wedding-day at night.
Dark cloudy death o'ershades his beams of life,
Disguising what they are.
more the pity that some honest neighbours will not
Exit
Go to, then: we'll use this unwholesome humidity,
How should he be made, then?
Methinks the realms of England, France and Ireland
Pleaseth you walk with me down to his house,
I thank your worship for your good counsel:
will be a black matter for the king that led them to
More of this matter cannot I report:
And will create thee empress of Rome,
By what means got, I leave to your own conscience--
And I for Rosalind.
And I am going to deliver them.
if he break the peace, he ought to enter into a
Well, more or less, or ne'er a whit at all,
As I do pray the gods.
What kind of woman is't?
tempts me saying to me 'Gobbo, Launcelot Gobbo, good
Kisses her
Pluck out his eyes.
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth:
Sweno, the Norways' king, craves composition:
Mark and perform it, see'st thou! for the fail
And be you kings, command, and I'll obey.
Stay, my Lord Talbot; for my lady craves
From another one?
overfar believe that, yet thus far I will boldly
May it please your grace,--
One of this kind is Cassio:
Is hack'd down, and his summer leaves all faded,
Enter DERCETAS, with the sword of MARK ANTONY
Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you;
Come on, sir.
Here's the commission: read it at more leisure.
The burthen of my sorrows fall upon ye.
You are mine enemy, and make my challenge
Hannibal! I respected with her before I was married
he hath not yet made wanton the night with her; and
Here comes your father; tell him so yourself,
In so entitling me, and no less honest
this Benedictus.
But when the duke is slain, they'll quickly fly.
Much more than death: do not say 'banishment.'
The Ladies turn their backs to him
May a free face put on, derive a liberty
Enter MENELAUS and PARIS, fighting: then THERSITES
Exit BUCKINGHAM with the Citizens
Have mercy on me!
and good plays prove the better by the help of good
Bring him our prisoner.
I prithee, do not strive against my vows:
I am sorry I must never trust thee more,
I' the common show-place, where they exercise.
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
I think thou art in mind, and so am I.
I am a rogue, if I were not at half-sword with a
I have no way, and therefore want no eyes;
And he shall marry her: the nuptial finish'd,
To hear from him a matter of some moment:
As many farewells as be stars in heaven,
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE
Any toys for your head,
Why, man?
Shall come apparell'd in more precious habit,
How now, my lords!
Of the great count himself, she is too mean
services thou hast done; which if I have not enough
That's I, an't like your grace:
you use him kindly? He will line your apron with gold.
How I would think on him at certain hours
In courtesy gives undeserving praise.
To think o' the teen that I have turn'd you to,
To fortune's yoke, but let thy dauntless mind
fear who knows it, when none can call our power to
Were you a woman, as the rest goes even,
Ha!
Speak it again, and, even with the word,
Thus do all traitors:
Ay, sir; we did sleep day out of countenance, and
They go up
Live thou, I live: with much, much more dismay
Two of the sweet'st companions in the world.
How goes it with my brave Mark Antony?
niece is already in the belief that he's mad: we
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
Begins to swell, and the approaching tide
On abjects, orts and imitations,
So, on my soul, he did, for aught he knew.
he would not have spoke such a word.
Good Enobarbus, make yourself my guest
Son Edward, she is fair and virtuous,
Would more have strengthen'd this our commonwealth
To the court of guard; he is of note: our hour
'Tis now struck twelve; get thee to bed, Francisco.
Unless it have a false interpeter.
Why should calamity be full of words?
Full of strange shapes, of habits and of forms,
Sings
in his own chamber--I mean, the lines of my body are
But with a baser man of arms by far
My lord, my lord,--
What doth move you to claim your brother's land?
Thou dotard! thou art woman-tired, unroosted
sometimes, leaving the fear of God on the left hand
And make the meanest of you earls and dukes?
Why didst thou say, of late thou wert despised?
numbers for the matter;
How is the man esteemed here in the city?
Or bitterly to speak in your reproof.
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.
enough to speak, but to speak true.
Hue and cry, villain, go! Assist me, knight. I am
Both in your form and nobleness of mind;
We are true subjects to the king, King Edward.
Exit
And show'd thou makest some tender of my life,
Gramercy, lovely Lucius: what's the news?
And mock him home to Windsor.
I should think so: he hath sent me an earnest
Give me pen and ink. Sirrah, can you with a grace
Prodigious, and untimely brought to light,
Enter LEWIS and his train
and undo a great deal of honoured! Servilius, now,
Thy wife hath dream'd; thy mother hath had visions;
Which is budded out;
What is it carries you away?
Case ye, case ye; on with your vizards: there 's
lay aside the thoughts of Sicilia.
Go, then my mother, to thy daughter go
I shall have more than you can dream of yet;
To whom as great a charge as little honour
This man has marr'd his fortune.
You have added worth unto 't and lustre,
As he is very potent with such spirits,
Then, as the manner of our country is,
with so many talents.
Whose every touch, would force the feeler's soul
Trumpets sound. Enter KING HENRY V, SCROOP, CAMBRIDGE, GREY, and Attendants
Bardolph, I say,--
What ruins are in me that can be found,
ascent is not by such easy degrees as those who,
And that no man might draw short breath today
ANTIPHOLUS
Breasting the lofty surge: O, do but think
O, whither shall we fly from this reproach?
If all else fail, myself have power to die.
Fit for a fool to fall by: what cross devil
In riddles and affairs of death;
Nothing, neither way.
gentlemen flock to him every day, and fleet the time
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
Yet in such rule that the Venetian law
And I did never ask it you again;
Thy exercise hath been too violent for
O Cymbeline! heaven and my conscience knows
And leave thee to the mercy of wild beasts.
Our feast shall be much honour'd in your marriage.
Will they not, think you, hang themselves tonight?
That bear a weighty and a serious brow,
And strong enough to issue out and fight:
That Richard be restored to his blood.
obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like
The offence is not of such a bloody nature;
reason why thou shouldst be so superfluous to demand
The knife that made it.
He.
he would see her to-morrow.
I have served Prince Florizel and in my time
the meaning:
Nay, godded me, indeed. Their latest refuge
Shall make the gazer joy to see him tread.
Hal, wilt thou make one?
But when he took a beggar to his bed,
Therefore prepare thee to cut off the flesh.
I will not reason what is meant hereby,
With spur we beat an acre. But to the goal:
I desire no more.
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
Most learned reverend sir, into our kingdom:
pennyworth on his side be the worst, yet hold thee,
Ay, do, persever, counterfeit sad looks,
Came you from the king, my lord
Ah, that thy father had been so resolved!
This bond expires, I do expect return
For he that holds his kingdom holds the law;
that give fools money get themselves a good
sir?
O well done! I commend your pains;
And now will I be Edward's champion.
O Jupiter! there's no comparison.
If but one of his pockets could speak, would it not
Hot livers and cold purses.
Think you I bear the shears of destiny?
His name, I pray you.
And in this state she gallops night by night
But falls into abatement and low price,
Thus did I keep my person fresh and new;
the tune of 'Two maids wooing a man:' there's
Jesu Maria, what a deal of brine
Had left no mourning widows for our death;
And wrap our bodies in black mourning gowns,
Your holy hat to be stamp'd on the king's coin.
Hark ye; Master Slender would speak a word with you.
To make hazard of new fortunes here:
He doth intend she shall be England's queen.
That possible strength might meet, would seek us through
That any one should therefore be suspicious
And if we be, how dare thy joints forget
Your absence only.
Yet so he ruled and such a prince he was
And when 'tis told, O, that my heart would burst!
Thus far our fortune keeps an upward course,
What bloody man is that? He can report,
but the devil, and we shall know him by his horns.
Aaron and thou look down into this den,
He shall be endured:
standing-bed and truckle-bed; 'tis painted about
So I do, against my will.
A style for-challengers; why, she defies me,
Re-enter MARCUS, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
He has been known to commit outrages,
Is not to leave't undone, but keep't unknown.
Thus have you breathed your curse against yourself.
Not mutinous in peace, yet bold in war;
is enough to be the decay of lust and late-walking
Stokesly and Gardiner; the one of Winchester,
And snarleth in the gentle eyes of peace:
But men are men; the best sometimes forget:
Exit
But what is like me formerly.
Ambition should be made of sterner stuff:
Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully;
Drew me from kind embracements of my spouse:
Stay, fellow; I can read.
SONG.
Added to their familiarity,
Which once untangled, much misfortune bodes:
By inspiration of celestial grace,
Enter TITUS ANDRONICUS, with Hunters,  and c., MARCUS, LUCIUS, QUINTUS, and MARTIUS
You must to Parthia: your commission's ready;
Whate'er the ocean pales, or sky inclips,
It is no time to discourse, so Chrish save me: the
Every good hap to you that chances here:
baseness, it is as much as I can do to keep the
One Ragozine, a most notorious pirate,
Our landmen will stand up.
A' was a merry man--took up the child:
Spurio, with his cicatrice, an emblem of war, here
I say, my lords, he has done fair service,
That if you now beheld them, your affections
For you must know, we have with special soul
hath given us wit to flout at Fortune, hath not
No mournful bell shall ring her burial;
Sir, I thank you; by yea and no, I do.
PROSPERO and ARIEL remain invisible. Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO, all wet
Let not the piece of virtue, which is set
For well I wot the empress never wags
Oft have I heard of you, my Lord Biron,
to himself, by the instruction of his frailty, many
I have some wounds upon me, and they smart
Is this the daughter of a king?
And all the ceremony of this compact
SCENE I. A room in the palace.
Storm still
Even so
gentlemen: they speak English?
like brothers and worship me their lord.
O, not to-day, think not upon the fault
lost mutton, nothing for my labour.
I found him here as melancholy as a lodge in a
And their most reverend heads dash'd to the walls,
And mince it sans remorse: swear against objects;
forthwith: dismiss your attendant there: look it be done.
'Ninus' tomb,' man: why, you must not speak that
Yet tell her of it: hear what she will say.
SCENE V. The same. A hall in Aufidius's house.
And make them tame to their obedience!
Shall pass his quarter, or offend the stream
You are the hare of whom the proverb goes,
We were to question further: but I now
I am denied to sue my livery here,
Leads discontented steps in foreign soil,
He is coming.
And dare us with his cap like larks.
My Lord Chatillon may from England bring,
SCENE I. London. The palace.
Why, what of him?
gentle a condition!
The good and bad together: he's friends with Caesar:
Carried herself towards me.
We heard it all. My lord, do as you please;
My gracious father, by your kingly leave,
Thou wouldst not have mourn'd so much for me.
Mistress Elbow, being, as I say, with child, and
Brave followers, yonder stands the thorny wood,
My lord,
We must follow the leaders.
And, on my lie, hath stol'n him home to bed.
We house i' the rock, yet use thee not so hardly
But that my Lady Beatrice should know me, and not
Crying 'O dear Cassio!' as it were: his gesture
Within the Temple-hall we were too loud;
How will the country for these woful chances
The fits o' the season. I dare not speak
And sent the ragged soldiers wounded home.
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried,
You speak a language that I understand not:
Enter three Watchmen, to guard KING EDWARD IV's tent
And to the skirts of this wild wood he came;
Exit HORATIO
And with Demetrius thought to have spoke thereof;
Enter the Constable of France, the LORD RAMBURES, ORLEANS, DAUPHIN, with others
The enemy increaseth every day;
Doth make a stand at what your highness will.
guest-cavaleire?
I do not sue to stand;
SCENE V. Pomfret castle.
Then there were two cousins laid up; when the one
O fair affliction, peace!
Nor I.
As plates dropp'd from his pocket.
For every man that Bolingbroke hath press'd
[To ROBIN]  Hold, sirrah, bear you these letters tightly;
Sound trumpet; Edward shall be here proclaim'd:
And so shall you,
On some known ground of treachery in him?
this hot weather. And I think this word 'sallet'
Would she had never given you leave to come!
Him and his innocent child: for which foul deed
My great profaneness 'gainst thine oracle!
My brother wears thee not the one half so well
Do scald like moulten lead.
you.
I hope I am not too late; and yet the gentleman,
If son to Talbot, die at Talbot's foot.
What's that? what's that?
Make not, sir,
Enter the KING OF FRANCE, the DAUPHIN, the DUKE oF BOURBON, the Constable Of France, and others
With better appetite.
Of sorriest fancies your companions making,
Why stand'st thou still, and go'st not to the duke?
That I may see my shadow as I pass.
Why, you say well. But I have another messenger to
To all that fortune, death and danger dare,
Let her know't.
It is her habit only that is honest,
Treason and murder ever kept together,
How long is that since?
spirit, hath sent me to you.
Hath promised me to help me to another,
Unwieldy, slow, heavy and pale as lead.
Gaunt am I for the grave, gaunt as a grave,
the best and the fairest, that would have won any
Revenge, which makes the foul offender quake.
And there receive her approbation:
Yet, after all comparisons of truth,
ACT II
Why, and I trust I may go too, may I not? What,
Most like: it harrows me with fear and wonder.
approbation of what I have spoke!
Where Balthazar and I did dine together.
And with their faint reply this answer join;
He rose against him, being his sovereign,
I may command where I adore;
Who did guide,
Or is it Dian, habited like her,
The Third Knight passes over
Live each of you the subjects to his hate,
And call these foul offenders to their answers
That you, Cleomenes and Dion, have
O my most gracious lord,
To give their censure of these rare reports.
Come, will you go with me?
As I might love: I never gave him token.
I told you; my lord.
Into a towering passion.
She is hard by with twenty thousand men;
O piteous spectacle! O bloody times!
Well,
First, as you know, my house within the city
What villain madam?
Let me put in your minds, if you forget,
Bring me to hear them speak, where I may be concealed.
And where I did begin, there shall I end;
And this the cranny is, right and sinister,
To seek you at your house. Well, I will hie,
May I, sweet lady, beg a kiss of you?
As heartily as he is glad he hath him.
Demuring upon me. But come, come, Antony,--
Who least will seem to do so, my past life
that I have not ended yet.
There is no virtue like necessity.
From Rome.
To Tenedos they come;
Your buskin'd mistress and your warrior love,
All broken implements of a ruin'd house.
Would Katharina had never seen him though!
Ugly and slanderous to thy mother's womb,
Hath made me rig my navy; at whose burthen
For my poor brother's head.
As I am mad, I do:
Exit a Servant
I may avoid him: which of these is he?
And now you know my meaning,
Why, she hath given you a letter.
for I was told you were in a consumption.
Now is the time of help; your eye in Scotland
At any time speak aught?
I humbly thank your ladyship.
Finding yourself desired of such a person,
And I do haunt thee in the battle thus
Dost thou wear thy wit by thy side?
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE disguised, with four Soldiers with sacks upon their backs
And carriage of the article design'd,
Hath any man seen him at the barber's?
I'll see it truly done, my Lord of York.
Now, the gods to-bless your honour!
A cistern for scaled snakes! Go, get thee hence:
Wilt thou be daunted at a woman's sight?
That wear upon your virgin branches yet
But, though thou art adjudged to the death
Pluck the grave wrinkled senate from the bench,
Call you me fair? that fair again unsay.
The supposition of the lady's death
This afternoon.
Of any constant man. What, worse and worse!
In unknown fathoms, will I break my oath
Of their own choice: one's Junius Brutus,
The one and other Diomed embraces.
Now take upon me, in the name of Time,
If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.
Returning were as tedious as go o'er:
That borrow their behaviors from the great,
Yet have I fierce affections, and think
But tell the traitor, in the high'st degree
No father his son dearer: truth to tell thee,
givest me,
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Stay here.
This many summers in a sea of glory,
I holp to frame thee. Do you know this lady?
agrees the devil and thee about thy soul, that thou
[Aside]	To betray me.--
We are come to you to do a good office, master parson.
That I was nothing.
I will wish her speedy strength, and visit her with
destruction. For these my present friends, as they
Let me but stand; I will not hurt your hearth.
And sweating until my very roof was dry
Exit PRINCE HENRY
Enter the BASTARD and PETER of Pomfret
Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates,
If you'll avouch 'twas wisdom Paris went--
With my request, which I make bold your highness
Your old kind father, whose frank heart gave all,--
A plague of opinion! a man may wear it on both
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,
My cousin Westmoreland? No, my fair cousin:
Which I in sufferance heartily will rejoice,
'Tis very late, she'll not come down to-night:
as she is and without any danger.
I am my master's true-confirmed love;
The sea's a thief, whose liquid surge resolves
The shepherd knows not thunder from a tabour
As confident as is the falcon's flight
Health, at your bidding, serve your majesty!
Of their friends' gift?
know straight our purpose: choughs' language,
and body's fostering patron.'
How rarely does it meet with this time's guise,
'Faith, I ran when I saw others run.
Thy dearest quit thee.
Just, if he send me no husband; for the which
Great Coeur-de-lion's heart was buried,
shall not shame me.
True, Master Page. Up, gentlemen: you shall see
Now fills thy sleep with perturbations
Who's there that knocks?
There is my purse to cure that blow of thine.
That does appear as he were flay'd? O gods
Come, you and I must walk a turn together;
Take not the quarrel from his powerful arm;
From some forefather grief; mine is not so,
My sequent protestation; be thou true,
And sleep in dull cold marble, where no mention
Thy heart to find it. Is she with Posthumus?
Revenge! About! Seek! Burn! Fire! Kill! Slay!
Come, sermon me no further:
That cannot choose but amaze him.
Shall this fellow live?
If you be ta'en, we then should see the bottom
leave that I may bear my evils alone: it were a bad
Will in his brinish bowels swallow him.
Be by, good madam, when we do awake him;
And yet I would not sleep: merciful powers,
Exit above
It is: may it be done?
Ay, ay, he told his mind upon mine ear:
For every man has business and desire,
PINDARUS descends
For learning me your language!
wench, as touching the hit it.
That she's the choice love of Signior Gremio.
Lady, what man is he you are accused of?
Is marching hitherwards; with him Prince John.
Hold, sir, for God's sake! now your jest is earnest:
out of my house yesterday in this basket: why may
He hath rid his prologue like a rough colt; he knows
For we are soft as our complexions are,
In the unlawful purpose.
Nay, he's a flower; in faith, a very flower.
But she knows what she does.
What's your highness' pleasure?
I heard not of it before.
The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders
The eternal devil to keep his state in Rome
I would this music would come: I am advised to give
please you,
Is that you reconcile them: while the Volsces
If I would but go to hell for an eternal moment or so,
smooth-tongue, Spanish-pouch,--
Are at my service, like enforced smiles;
Save you, good madam.
Exit running; Attendants follow
What say'st thou?
Believe it, Page; he speaks sense.
Is worthy praise: but, shall I speak my conscience,
let him take her simply; the wealth I have waits on
That breathed upon this earth a Christian;
knotted garden: there did I see that low-spirited
Who says it was, he lies; I say 'twas not.
Enter STANLEY
Or rather, call my thought a certain knowledge--
DON
himself for your succession in Denmark?
More fierce and more inexorable far
But here without you shall be so received
swallowed with yest and froth, as you'ld thrust a
Whispering
Some sins do bear their privilege on earth,
She, in my judgment, was as fair as you:
But, I your daughter, he must be my brother?
For Hecuba!
Hear me with patience but to speak a word.
Thus, like the formal vice, Iniquity,
To sit and witch me, as Ascanius did
Cursed be the heart that had the heart to do it!
My master, sir, Master Slender, sent to her, seeing
Must be provided for: and you shall put
Quip Modest; the third, the Reply Churlish; the
What do you think of my daughter, sir?
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
overjoyed with finding a birds' nest, shows it his
my friends and the better for my foes.
O, she misused me past the endurance of a block!
Both to my God and to my gracious king:
Thy garments are not spotted with our blood,
that's in them. Is the senate possessed of this?
Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment
For this one wish, that you had power and wealth
And for the day confined to fast in fires,
Well said, adversity! and what need these tricks?
Sirrah, if they meet not with Saint Nicholas'
Though I look old, yet I am strong and lusty;
serving-man a fresh tapster. Go; adieu.
Both on one sampler, sitting on one cushion,
Know the glove! I know the glove is glove.
These violent delights have violent ends
This falls out better than I could devise.
Nor will you not tell me who you are?
sulphurous pit,
[Aside]  A' must needs; for beggary is valiant.
Will you give thanks, sweet Kate; or else shall I?
When Biondello comes, he waits on thee;
He is; and, see, he brings the mayor along.
Nay, it is true, or else I am a Turk:
A noise of hunters heard. Enter divers Spirits,  in shape of dogs and hounds, and hunt them about, PROSPERO and ARIEL setting them on
How now! what noise? That spirit's possessed with haste
Her tongue will not obey her heart, nor can
In her days every man shall eat in safety,
Could not so mope.
Ay, there's the point: as--to be bold with you--
towards her.
Banquo and Macbeth, all hail!
As on a pillory, looking through the lute;
To come and sport: her peacocks fly amain:
Continues well my lord? His health, beseech you?
Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier,
And though you think that all, as you have done,
Well demanded, wench:
Off-capp'd to him: and, by the faith of man,
Put my sick cause into his hands that hates me?
by the salt rheum that ran between France and it.
Who have you offended, masters, that you are thus
O, peace! now he's deeply in: look how
Here, neighbour Horner, I drink to you in a cup of
To win the Moor--were't to renounce his baptism,
For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
My eyes are then no eyes, nor I Biron:
Madam, he will; I know't.
Heaven knows, not I;
And, if you can be merry then, I'll say
SCENE III. A room in a prison.
As to expend your time with us awhile,
And on the wager lay two earthly women,
How is it, general? have you not hurt your head?
Such comfort as do lusty young men feel
And be true king indeed, thou but the shadow.
The better act of purposes mistook
In haste, post-haste, are come to join with you:
will do it sir, in print. Gardon! Remuneration!
Worthy the note.
How we may steal from hence, and for the gap
No scope of nature, no distemper'd day,
And let his knights have colder looks among you;
No words, no words: hush.
To me for justice and rough chastisement;
Thy sly conveyance and thy lord's false love;
Ha! Marcius coming home!
Will do's commission throughly: and I think
Son, let your mother end.
Meantime, in signal of my love to thee,
Well said, master; mum! and gaze your fill.
'Let our reciprocal vows be remembered. You have
I will run no base humour: here, take the
And bids thee christen it with thy dagger's point.
It is my lord's.
And have the dates in contempt.
I wonder on't; he was wont to shine at seven.
Come, ho! and wake Diana with a hymn!
Nay, come, I prithee; would thou'ldst be ruled by me!
Of a poor worm. Thy best of rest is sleep,
But to the earth some special good doth give,
But, master, if I had been the sexton, I would have
Ah, what's more dangerous than this fond affiance!
What means his grace, that he hath changed his style?
'One Sir Andrew,'--
Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep,
Was to send him; for whose old love I have,
How now, worthy soldier?
Brief, then; and what's the news?
The mortal bugs o' the field.
And may: but, how? how satisfied, my lord?
Then thou dwellest with daws too?
Marry, sir, sometimes he is a kind of puritan.
Have lost my daughter.
Ay, sir, from one Monsieur Biron, one of the strange
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
Though Marcius earned them not, and all his faults
This deed of thine is no more worthy heaven
Weaving spiders, come not here;
Be it as your wisdom will.
And scarce can spare them.
and, having flown over many knavish professions, he
cuckold, they would make themselves whores, but
My Lord of Somerset, at my request,
By seven o'clock I'll get you such a ladder.
Exeunt
Why, do 'e take it, and the gods give thee good on't!
Nor your son Dorset, Buckingham, nor you;
Know you any, Hero?
Say thou wilt course; thy greyhounds are as swift
Jerusalem, and crown her Queen of England ere the
Were those that went on each side of the queen?
Now.
This is Pisanio's deed, and Cloten's: O!
I am for France.
A lie; you are rough and hairy. Let me have no
contemplation are you in?
upon you; and, I pray you, your name?
Did make my way long forth.
I will unfold some causes of your deaths.
name, friend?
the crime of it out of us.
'Fore your queen died, she was more worth such gazes
By reason of his adversary's odds:
And snatch 'em up, as we take hares, behind:
The sun's o'ercast with blood: fair day, adieu!
That tidings came;--with this she fell distract,
Take that, until thou bring me better news.
loathsomest scab in Greece. When thou art forth in
Thou art no soldier.
Myself in counsel, his competitor.
Now, gods that we adore, whereof comes this?
Now, go thy way. Faintness constraineth me
On chaliced flowers that lies;
Whose boughs did bend with fruit: but in one night,
There's little of the melancholy element in her, my
Sleeves, hail kissing-comfits and snow eringoes; let
His cocks do win the battle still of mine,
The honourable father to my foe
And, if though canst for blushing, view this face,
You'll find it otherwise, I assure you: therefore,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Any annoyance in that precious sense!
monster. A most scurvy monster! I could find in my
His eye doth level at, so thou ne'er return
Congeal'd with this, do make me wipe off both.
I warrant you, my lord.
Where is thy lady? In a word; or else
companions, is all ready, and all things neat?
I do perceive't: there's nothing in her yet:
there, and you too; but my powers are there already.
Excusez-moi, Alice; ecoutez: de hand, de fingres,
Thou art a fool: if Echo were as fleet,
That you take with unthankfulness, his doing:
That through the window-bars bore at men's eyes,
Or let a rebel lead you to your deaths?
Beats as of flesh and blood; and, since I saw thee,
he would put us two. I had rather be a giantess,
Why, Warwick, canst thou speak against thy liege,
As my thoughts make thee, and as my farthest band
'Twixt right and wrong, for pleasure and revenge
The Tuscan service, freely have they leave
Not till Monday, my dear son, which is hence a just
Of law and course of direct session
Which parti-coated presence of loose love
I am debating of my present store,
For she is lumpish, heavy, melancholy,
Where do the palmers lodge, I do beseech you?
Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.
That tend upon my father?
The dishes are uncovered and seen to be full of warm water
I like thy wit well, in good faith: the gallows
To be imprison'd in the viewless winds,
Freed and enfranchised, not a party to
well; but civil count, civil as an orange, and
What viler thing upon the earth than friends
cock, with your comb on.
A beard, fair health, and honesty;
Flew on him, and amongst them fell'd him dead;
commodity of good names were to be bought. An old
But shall we wear these honours for a day?
And for thy maintenance commits his body
Why, sir, that is as fit as can be to serve for
That you are odd, and he is even with you.
Your husband is at hand; I hear his trumpet:
most courtly and fashionable: performance is a kind
In honour of a true Plantagenet
Well, tell me now what lady is the same
That even our love durst not come near your sight
For even to vice
And he may fetch him.
Enter a Gentleman, with Attendants
begot, bastard instructed, bastard in mind, bastard
But, as you know me all, a plain blunt man,
Gather the sequel by that went before.
It then remains
Their lips were four red roses on a stalk,
And since you know you cannot see yourself
And wander we to see thy honest son,
For all the rest is held at such a rate
Thou camest here to complain.
Make my aunt merry with some pleasing tale.
Upon thy doings: thousand escapes of wit
Bores through his castle wall, and farewell king!
O'er, point by point, for yet he seems to doubt,
And I believe twill never stand upright
When came he to this town?
Go get thee hence, and find my dog again,
Here's to my love!
The first and second cause will not serve my turn;
Was ever father so bemoan'd his son?
Owe their estates unto him.
Enter SHYLOCK, SALARINO, ANTONIO, and Gaoler
Doth that bode weeping?
ear-kissing arguments?
Flute, you must take Thisby on you.
Signior Lucio, did not you say you knew that
I hear your grace hath sworn out house-keeping:
Go to thy death-bed:
How many be commanded that command!
That she will light to listen to the lays,
Good morrow, sweet Hero.
What are you?
And for Mark Antony, think not of him;
I must confess your offer is the best;
By your pardon, sir, I was then a young traveller;
I believe you;
Like one i' the stocks. Thou hast never in thy life
The knowledge of your mistress home, I grant
Saint Cupid, then! and, soldiers, to the field!
By the bare scalp of Robin Hood's fat friar,
As huge as high Olympus.
O piteous spectacle!
Enter BUCKINGHAM and CLIFFORD, attended
And in thy thought o'er-run my former time;
In this our fabric, if that they--
some of all professions that go the primrose
Upon the pashed corses of the kings
And hear him mock the Frenchman. But, heavens know,
separation of their society, their encounters,
May be the amorous count solicits her
Enter CASSIO and IAGO
And that to hear an old man sing
That at his will he may do danger with.
Dear Celia, I show more mirth than I am mistress of;
Do.
By rule of knighthood, I disdain and spurn:
Of Salisbury, who can report of him,
Let housewives make a skillet of my helm,
Now, mother, what's the matter?
Till death be uttered,
Stay! speak, speak! I charge thee, speak!
Christendom.
Thou art my warrior;
Hence, rotten thing! or I shall shake thy bones
How these were they that made away his brother.
Ay, marry, will we, sir; and we'll be waited on.
Draw forth thy weapon, we are beset with thieves;
And gives them what he will, not what they crave.
There is no world without Verona walls,
are to be smiled at, their offences being so
You told not how Henry the Sixth hath lost
There is no remedy; I must cony-catch; I must shift.
Shall be a wall sufficient to defend
take heed, honest Gobbo, or, as aforesaid, 'honest
Doth Arthur live? O, haste thee to the peers,
Thou call'dst me up at midnight to fetch dew
Joy'd are we that you are.
Direct not him whose way himself will choose:
I take no heed of thee; thou'rt an Athenian,
Obedience fail in children! slaves and fools,
And, when the work of generation was
I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me;
It stands in like request?
What should he say, but as the cardinal?
In this uncivil and thou unjust extent
Come, come; will't please you go?
Exit Servant
If thou livest, Pericles, thou hast a heart
For what doth cherish weeds but gentle air?
The Lord forbid!
Is come on shore: the Moor himself at sea,
Marry, will I	kneel and repeat it; I will stand,
Even from the tongueless caverns of the earth,
And haste is needful in this desperate case.
For that my grandsire was an Englishman,
For the benefit of silence, would thou wert so too!
Good night, good night! parting is such
your ladyships, you may see the end; for the best is
Say so but seldom.
'Tis Agamemnon's wish, and great Achilles
Grandam, his nurse.
tender, and they'll be for the flowery way that
Vices, I would say, sir. I know this man well: he
Drew to defend him when he was beset:
That's our offer.
I could put thee in comfort. Not by two that I know:
It might, my lord.
This is the matter:--Nurse, give leave awhile,
Pulling SIMPLE out
The famed Cassibelan, who was once at point--
Wear thy good rapier bare, and put it home:
[Aside]  I'll no more drumming; a plague of all
Well, well, no more.
Who led me instantly unto his cave,
Made demonstrable here in Cyprus to him,
Not by the title. She is young, wise, fair;
Thou art poor'st of all; then shortly art thou mine.
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
father and the gentlemen are in sad talk, and we'll
for thou art not so long by the head as
Virgins on each side; CERIMON and other Inhabitants
Which is as bad as die with tickling.
Why, sir, I brought you word an hour since that the
O, God defend me! how am I beset!
Sir, your queen must overboard: the sea works high,
I do perceive it hath offended you:
His resemblance, being not like the duke;
But I shall laugh at this a twelve-month hence,
Have you climb'd up to walls and battlements,
If thou be'st Prospero,
Take, then, this your companion by the hand,
Would bear thee from the knowledge of thyself,
With how depraved a quality--O Regan!
You know the peril.
Or wilt thou sleep? we'll have thee to a couch
And do him homage as obedient subjects;
Come Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen.
An a' be proud with me, I'll pheeze his pride:
I prithee, noble friend, home to thy house;
Hath any honour, but honour for those honours
But poison'd flattery? O, be sick, great greatness,
O, in this love, you love your child so ill,
To MARK ANTONY
Your sword or mine, or masterless leaves both
O, let me look!
your pardon;
This, general joy.
Bring in to any of your ancestors.
When that a ring of Greeks have hemm'd thee in,
Construe them.
That thou, my brother, my competitor
She is a gallant creature, and complete
Wait in the presence.
My lord, I would that Thursday were to-morrow.
While she did call me rascal fiddler
of a world ransomed, or one destroyed: a notable
Why doth the Jew pause? take thy forfeiture.
Sir, a whole history.
To Hymen, god of every town!
And he whose wife is most obedient
Thou shalt have one.
Re-enter SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, and GONZALO
answer: thither with all greediness of affection
If thou wilt condescend to be my--
Exeunt
Farewell!
Will much impeach the justice of his state;
Hath founded his good fortunes on your love,
How does my father? Gentles, methinks you frown:
O slanderous world! Kate like the hazel-twig
Come not near him. If thou wouldst not reside
None, my lord.
The sullen passage of thy weary steps
Him caper upright like a wild Morisco,
O, call back yesterday, bid time return,
we term it, his friends whilst he's in directitude.
lie, do, and try whether I am not now a gentleman born.
yourself, sir, should be old as I am, if like a crab
Lives not this day within the city walls:
Who craves a parley with the Burgundy?
Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.
Glamis thou art, and Cawdor; and shalt be
Entreat her fair; and, by my soul, fair Greek,
Which promises royal peril. Trumpeters,
SCENE V. Another room in Philario's house.
Whatsome'er he is,
Neapolitan's, a better bad habit of frowning than
Against a sworder! I see men's judgments are
Exeunt
give me your blessing: I am Launcelot, your boy
Follow me!
grace the attempt for a worthy exploit: if you
O, wilt thou darkling leave me? do not so.
For fear their colours should be wash'd away.
I left no ring with her: what means this lady?
What, should I hurt her, strike her, kill her dead?
Yet do thy cheeks look red as Titan's face
Hath there been such a time--I'd fain know that--
and wasteful learning, the other knowing no burden
On their sustaining garments not a blemish,
Enter in mourning habits, VIRGILIA, VOLUMNIA, leading young MARCIUS, VALERIA, and Attendants
And I will put that business in your bosoms,
Come, my lord, and in our flight
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
'So so' is good, very good, very excellent good; and
To ease their stomachs with their bitter tongues.
And all the ruins of distressful times
And let this tyrannous night take hold upon you,
SCENE III. Woods and cave, near the seashore.
A sin-absolver, and my friend profess'd,
What means your lordship?
As the weird women promised, and, I fear,
Cursed be I that did so! All the charms
Be hostages for Rome.
If Proteus like your journey when you come,
If he say so, may his pernicious soul
A mother only mock'd with two sweet babes;
And that be heir to his unhappiness!
I was forced to scold. Your judgments, my grave lords,
O serpent heart, hid with a flowering face!
I could neither believe nor misdoubt. Pray you,
This way, my lord; for this way lies the game.
offence gracious, though few have the grace to do it.
Young budding virgin, fair and fresh and sweet,
To this my fair beloved: therefore, I pray you,
He dies, we lose; I break my warlike word;
And therefore, by His majesty I swear,
William of Windsor was the seventh and last.
Has deserved prison, then abound in tears
Those mouthed wounds, which valiantly he took
as ours are: yet, in reason, no man should possess
I have many enemies in Orsino's court,
My lord, my lord,
Hath been! is it ended, then? Our state thinks not
Here comes a flattering rascal; upon him
With such a heady currance, scouring faults
This deity in my bosom: twenty consciences,
Take him away: he knows I know him well.
And make a monster of you.
Father, tear the crown from the usurper's head.
That thou wilt use the wars as thy redress
To take from you the jewel you hold so dear.
He would receive it? he and his physicians
You beg a single penny more: come, you shall ha't;
And with a heart new-fired I follow you,
With sad unhelpful tears, and with dimm'd eyes
As you are toss'd with. In faith,
Death makes no conquest of this conqueror;
To work exceeding miracles on earth.
'And some have greatness thrust upon them.'
you serve God?
I'll put a girdle round about the earth
Charles Delabreth, high constable of France;
Where be our men?
Cut off the sequence of posterity,
Nay, then will I be gone.
betwixt a benefit and an injury, I never found man
And Portia one, there must be something else
our Roman power: your lord and Titus Lartius are set
There Diomed doth feast with him to-night;
If I should pay you for't as 'tis extoll'd,
than legs, nor no more shoes than feet; nay,
Of one persuaded well of--
This carol they began that hour,
Well, my good fellows, wait on me to-night:
Those many had not dared to do that evil,
With feigning voice verses of feigning love,
Freely command, thou wouldst have plunged thyself
Here comes the prince and Claudio.
Nor tripped neither, you base football player.
Than will preserve just so much strength in us
I do; and surely
Brother, farewell.
Exit
Go to: what quality are they of? Elbow is your
Hortensio, hark:
And certain stars shot madly from their spheres,
Not to eat honey like a drone
Enter PRIAM, HECTOR, TROILUS, PARIS, and HELENUS
If you did wed my sister for her wealth,
Why, 'tis not amiss, Pompey. Farewell: go, say I
To FERDINAND
Your suffering in this dearth, you may as well
Truly, sir, to see your wife. Is she at home?
As this ingrate and canker'd Bolingbroke.
To RICHMOND
all others?
Of Albany's and Cornwall's powers you heard not?
Odours, odours.
The legate of the pope hath been with me,
Like a phantasma, or a hideous dream:
Proposed for the deserver! O gentle Pandarus,
But bear it as our Roman actors do,
What black magician conjures up this fiend,
The most remark'd i' the kingdom. As for Cromwell,
My dearest lord, bless'd, to be most accursed,
And you are stay'd for. There; my blessing with thee!
[Aside]  Excellent workman! thou canst not paint a
where his codpiece seems as massy as his club?
With Valentinus in the emperor's court:
The quality and hair of our attempt
The kindred of the queen, must die at Pomfret.
To barbarous licence; as 'tis ever common
And I did yield to him: but the next morn betimes,
They have made worms' meat of me: I have it,
Then think you right: I am not what I am.
And I am all forgotten.
And not by old gradation, where each second
And now I cloy me with beholding it.
Takes from his high respect: thither Macduff
Bootless home and weather-beaten back.
In like conditions as our argument,
He falls on the bed
As our best-moving fair solicitor.
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
Die in his youth by like untimely violence!
To-day my Lord of Amiens and myself
Both by myself and many other friends:
And earthly power doth then show likest God's
The fouler fortune mine, and there an end.
Makes sound opinion sick and truth suspected,
Mine host Pistol, you must come to my master, and
And bound I am to Padua; there to visit
And follow me, that will to some provision
careless desolation; but you are no such man; you
More covetous of wisdom and fair virtue
And that thou oft provokest; yet grossly fear'st
Contempt, farewell! and maiden pride, adieu!
Fair Queen of England, worthy Margaret,
Valiant, wise, remorseful, well accomplish'd:
Think us no churls, nor measure our good minds
Fie, brother! how the world is changed with you!
All adoration, duty, and observance,
To fair Marina; but in no wise
My lord, I aim a mile beyond the moon;
Exeunt
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
And yielding to him humours well his frenzy.
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
But, brother Antony,--
If I myself, there is no hour so fit
Turns them to shapes and gives to airy nothing
I extend my hand to him thus, quenching my familiar
Hie thee, gentle Jew.
And I take him to be valiant.
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
Exeunt
Thanks. What's the matter, you dissentious rogues,
Have you
I charge thee, invite them all: let in the tide
Is posted, as the agent of our cardinal,
The king, that calls your beauteous daughter wife.
Ay, it is no matter.
Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold:
your son: give me your blessing: truth will come
It gives me wonder great as my content
bate thee a scruple.
Keep house and port and servants as I should:
I shall continue thankful.
Exit
am: the violet smells to him as it doth to me: the
Tent in my cheeks, and schoolboys' tears take up
Incite them to quick motion; for I must
For showing me again the eyes of man!
Hast thou tapp'd out and drunkenly caroused:
SCENE IV. A street.
Have I not hideous death within my view,
What? thou liest! Sir Alice Ford! These knights
That I am touch'd with madness! Make not impossible
without any.
The apparition comes: I knew your father;
But, bear-like, I must fight the course. What's he
Ill not pay a denier. What, will you make a younker
Sprinkle cool patience. Whereon do you look?
To gaze upon the secrets of the deep?
To soft and gentle speech.
And blind oblivion swallow'd cities up,
Speak, good Master Brook: I shall be glad to be
ish nothing done, so Chrish sa' me, la!
And level of my brain, plot-proof; but she
I attend them with all respect and duty.
I am angling now,
In good sadness, I am sorry that for my sake you
With Cassio's suit: therefore be merry, Cassio;
I will drain him dry as hay:
Against your honour
And after summer evermore succeeds
His brows within a golden crown and call'd
[Aside]  O gods! Who is't can say 'I am at
Mark, how they whisper: urge them while their souls
Be not afraid, good youth, I will not have you:
So, farewell to you both.
Alas the day! I never gave him cause.
Fret fetlock deep in gore and with wild rage
Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
It may be judged I made the duke away;
To grosser issues nor to larger reach
And art confederate with a damned pack
Where we may take him and disgrace him for it.
Enter TYBALT and others
A ship you sent me to, to hire waftage.
Caesar, 'tis strucken eight.
you, and so now I speak my agitation of the matter:
Noble Aufidius,
Re-enter EROS
Boskos thromuldo boskos.
SCENE I. Westminster Hall.
may tutor thee: thou scurvy-valiant ass! thou art
Meantime, but think how I may do thee good,
And thrift is blessing, if men steal it not.
True is it that we have seen better days,
This to your majesty; this to the queen.
This sport, well carried, shall be chronicled.
For the following, sir?
Do you perceive the gastness of her eye?
Drawing him aside
DON
For these two heads do seem to speak to me,
John Falstaff have committed disparagements unto
Exit CATESBY
Is crept into the palace of our king.
Sings
It forged him some design, which, being believed,
thankful should be,
Exeunt
Ay, and greater wonders than that.
King Lewis his satisfaction, all appear
It toucheth us, as France invades our land,
La main? elle est appelee de hand.
Methought I was enamour'd of an ass.
Fly hence, and leave me: think upon these gone;
Make war with him that climb'd unto their nest,
Of such divine perfection, as Sir Proteus.
I have seen her wear it; and she reckon'd it
Lord, how it looks about! Believe me, sir,
Make it so known.
off his head presently; and then break into his
Why is Time such a niggard of hair, being, as it is,
thy Harry's company, banish not him thy Harry's
As Stephen Sly and did John Naps of Greece
Because thou see'st me dote upon my love.
How near the tidings of our comfort is.
Then in plain terms tell her my loving tale.
good prey of us, if he knew of it; for there is
Or thee? or thee? or any of your faction?
Meantime, have patience.
Yet standing in rich place, I multiply
I am amazed with matter.
His time of fearing death. Stoop, Romans, stoop,
Drum afar off
many of these lisping hawthorn-buds, that come like
We count not worth the hanging, but none human,
Comes not that blood as modest evidence
north, Percy, and he of Wales, that gave Amamon the
Married Richard Earl of Cambridge; who was son
What an alteration of honour
Made out of her impatience, which not wanted
Hath Death lain with thy wife. There she lies,
What's the matter, sir?
To atone them, for the love I bear to Cassio.
The ship is here put in,
And ran dismay'd away.
Enter PISANIO
And this shall free thee from this present shame;
Good morrow, ladies. What were't worth to know
We shall to London get, where you are loved
Thy love did read by rote and could not spell.
Exeunt MARIANA and ISABELLA
And came I not at last to comfort you?
Stay, let thy humble handmaid speak to thee.
Betwixt a father by thy step-dame govern'd,
That jade hath eat bread from my royal hand;
Pedascule, I'll watch you better yet.
Shall that victorious hand be feebled here,
My grieved ear withal; whereon, I begg'd
And him to Pomfret; where, as all you know,
To the monument!
I was forbid it.
Not his that spoils her young before her face.
Can woman me unto't: where is my son, I pray you?
To the contrary I have express commandment.
My brother hath done well.
This kingdom, this confine of blood and breath,
Exit
I will be with you.
look, a mouse! Peace, peace; this piece of toasted
Reads
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
When we have chid the hasty-footed time
Pardon's the word to all.
That I must draw this metal from my side
And so far will I trust thee, gentle Kate.
Who am myself attach'd with weariness,
withered pears, it looks ill, it eats drily; marry,
Sound, sound alarum! we will rush on them.
What sayest thou, Jack?
Ah, do not tear away thyself from me!
And lay my arms before the legs of this sweet lass of France,
Thy letters have transported me beyond
An earnest conjuration from the king,
Aside
Your reproof is something too round: I should be
He must be buried with his brethren.
More direful hap betide that hated wretch,
But where the bull and cow are both milk-white,
Of the world's ransom, blessed Mary's Son,
This is the greatest error of all the rest: the man
Brutus, this sober form of yours hides wrongs;
For them to play at will. How came the posterns
to your husband, to give him such cause of suspicion!
But, wrangling pedant, this is
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
And then I would no other company.
And your unblest fate hies: strumpet, I come.
Go to; have your lath glued within your sheath
Exit Lord
When your eyes roll so: why I should fear I know not,
But in a fainter kind:--O, not like me;
My lord,--
He cannot choose. I am most fortunate, thus
I pray you now, remembrance tomorrow on the lousy
You have abused me:
Hath clouded all thy happy days on earth:
When rather from our acts we them derive
Good night then, Casca: this disturbed sky
It does: but time will--and so--
The gods requite his charity!'
I will cap that proverb with 'There is flattery in friendship.'
this intolerable deal of sack! What there is else,
DON
O, what men dare do! what men may do! what men daily
O, the better, sir; for he that drinks all night,
That lie shall lie so heavy on my sword,
dragon's tail; and my nativity was under Ursa
I am no pilot; yet, wert thou as far
Thou liest, malignant thing! Hast thou forgot
Am, for his love and service, so to him.
And what was first but fear what might be done,
And Crispin Crispian shall ne'er go by,
He's walking in the garden--thus; and spurns
So.
given to virtue, I would swear by thy face; my oath
Alas, look here, my lord.
Cast your election on him.
That Timon cares not. But if be sack fair Athens,
Or any creeping venom'd thing that lives!
pastime with us a day or two, or longer: if
Call our cares fears; which will in time
At Tewksbury: despair, therefore, and die!
Fie, fie upon her! she's able to freeze the god
To IACHIMO
I am no thing to thank God on, I would thou
Lest to thy harm thou move our patience.
I have forgot your name; but, sure, that part
'Tis more than you deserve;
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
But mine and mine I loved and mine I praised
To-night I'll mourn with Hero.
Go, Salisbury, and tell them all from me.
Beast!
Lest that thy wives with spits and boys with stones
away your child on a fool, and a physician? Look on
Show'd like a rebel's whore: but all's too weak:
For lying so, Hermia, I do not lie.
by this means
Take her by the hand,
What art thou?
Who stood equivalent with mighty kings:
Have put to death an hundred senators.
Know, Caesar doth not wrong, nor without cause
How insolent of late he is become,
This is unlikely:
Shows not till it be struck; our gentle flame
Now Jove afford you cause!
Ay, too well.
That I may swear beauty doth beauty lack,
honourable parts, and are the governor of this place.
That here you maintain several factions,
Thy full petition at the hand of Brutus!
A good direction, warlike sovereign.
But I do love the favour and the form
Why, what a madcap hath heaven lent us here!
Who are they that complain unto the king,
I would not have him know so much by me.
none to guard it but boys.
I long till Edward fall by war's mischance,
Against infection and the hand of war,
I am as peremptory as she proud-minded;
Now, ere the sun advance his burning eye,
Honest Iago hath ta'en order for't.
A rarer spirit never
mightst have hit upon it here: the commonwealth of
The heavens forbid
More than my father's skill, which was the greatest
Laden with gold; take that, divide it; fly,
That Silvia, at Friar Patrick's cell, should meet me.
That I must call't in question.
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
Be gentle grave unto me! rather on Nilus' mud
Already have I been false to Valentine
For hardy and undoubted champions;
Thou hast a perfect thought:
The king my father did in Tarsus leave me;
To him the other two shall minister;
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
Your danger's ours.
I learn, you take things ill which are not so,
Thanks, royal sir.
When now I think you can behold such sights,
[Aside]
Thou bloodless remnant of that royal blood!
SCENE II. Verona. JULIA'S house.
Submissive fall his princely feet before,
Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
hath found him already.
We twain will go into his highness' tent.
I' the sway of your own will. Is he array'd?
Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of
must die. Come, headsman, off with his head.
Two several times by night; at Sardis once,
REGAN plucks his beard
So and no other, as yourself commanded:
Things at the worst will cease, or else climb upward
Upon whose property and most dear life
He is there: see what humour he is in; and I will
No, though he thought his accusation true.
thee, Kate:
manly spirit: adieu.
Since summer first was leafy:
Wherein my letters, praying on his side,
shall rob those men that we have already waylaid:
Why, then 'tis time to arm and give direction.
Enter DON JOHN and BORACHIO
So true, so just, and now so comfortable?
My lord, that, may be, hath endured a grief
Bound with triumphant garlands will I come
For night's swift dragons cut the clouds full fast,
And to proclaim it civilly, were like
And comforts to your cause.
He acts thy greatness in: and when he speaks,
encountered: I hope it is not so low with him as
Is Bridgenorth: and, Harry, you shall march
He professes to have received no sinister measure
Some galled goose of Winchester would hiss:
Give them diseases, leaving with thee their lust.
Just death, kind umpire of men's miseries,
Away!
Not a whit, when it jars so.
Our king is not like him in that: he never killed
point, heel to head; and then, to be stopped in,
With two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes;
Good madam, let me see your face.
Three, my most gracious lord.
O, where hath our intelligence been drunk?
Till further settling.
The bruit thereof will bring you many friends.
Lose not so noble a friend on vain suppose,
Go you with me, uncle of Exeter.
Who would not wish to be from wealth exempt,
Have turn'd mine eye and wept. But, good Pisanio,
Kept in my soul, and would not let it forth
He bravely broach'd is boiling bloody breast;
This one hand yet is left to cut your throats,
all, and he gives me the stuck in with such a mortal
Affliction is enamour'd of thy parts,
As you shall deem yourself lodged in my heart,
Enter Poet, Painter, Jeweller, Merchant, and others, at several doors
To him that made him proud, the pope.
AEmilius, do this message honourably:
To add unto his sickness? No, my Brutus;
Good madam, be not angry with the child.
Fire that's closest kept burns most of all.
ACT I
I did suppose it should be on constraint:
thy heels, and beat thee before the king? Draw, you
Some to the studious universities.
Some two months hence up higher toward the north
friend of mine.
Just as high as my heart.
come, thou art a mocker of my labour. Well said!
But love is blind and lovers cannot see
Lord, how art thou changed! How dost thou and thy
Well, let us go together.
No remedy.
Or groan for love? or spend a minute's time
I am to blame to be thus waited for.
O heaven! I thank you, Hubert.
Ready to go, but never to return.
There is no way but this, Sir Andrew.
Into whose hand I give thy life.
But what said she?
As he made semblance of his duty, would
Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds,
And heap'd sedition on his crown at home.
Are confident against the world in arms.
Is come with a great power to raise the siege.
From London by the king was I press'd forth;
than himself
Nothing in France, until he have no wife!
For his undone lord than mine eyes for you.
God pardon them that are the cause of it!
Waked by the lark, hath roused the ribald crows,
Would bring white hairs unto a quiet grave.
Gold were as good as twenty orators,
Which I beseech your highness to forgive,
Hush, master! here's some good pastime toward:
Love's thrice repured nectar? death, I fear me,
Wilt thou rob this leathern jerkin, crystal-button,
See, they encounter thee with their hearts' thanks.
These English monsters! My Lord of Cambridge here,
Of thee, which says thus, 'Do my Lord of Canterbury
Alas, poor heart, that kiss is comfortless
I'll go no more:
sirrah, for all you are my man, go wait upon my
I know thee now: how farest thou, soldier?
SCENE III. The same. Street before Pandarus' house.
This eye shoots forth! how big imagination
To give in evidence. What then? what rests?
Re-enter Gentleman, with the Gaoler
That I may turn me to each one of you,
want no instruction; if their daughters be capable,
unstanched wench.
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
Make much of him, my lords, for this is he
Loves me as dear as e'er my mother did,
already I have foolishly suffered.
And finds them perfect Richard. Sirrah, speak,
And, clasping to the mast, endured a sea
Youth, beauty, wisdom, courage, all
Now let me see if I can construe it: 'Hic ibat
the fashion of his hat; it ever changes with the
That thou art even natural in thine art.
Did, as he vouches, misreport your grace.
Will not wait pinion'd at your master's court;
Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat?
For we were subjects but while you were king.
Between these swelling wrong-incensed peers.
[Within]  Whoe'er he be, you may not be let in.
I saw't not, thought it not, it harm'd not me:
Reprove the brown for rashness, and they them
Can the son's eye behold his father bleed?
We will so: almost all
Sometime the flood prevails, and then the wind;
But that this folly douts it.
But if I tell how these two did co-act,
Then, forester, my friend, where is the bush
Enter FORD
Alarum. Exeunt
Revoke that doom of mercy, for 'tis Clifford;
Helen, it is not so.
'Tis he, I ken the manner of his gait;
As in a Romish stew and to expound
Is altogether just: therefore bring forth,
Perhaps they had ere this, but that they stay
[Aside]  Clubs, clubs! these lovers will not keep
Even here undone!
And drive the English forth the bounds of France.
Bugle bracelet, necklace amber,
So York must sit and fret and bite his tongue,
Being pent from liberty, as I am now,
Our letters are prepared.
For then, I hope, thou wilt not keep him long,
We licence your departure with your son.
I'll either make thee stoop and bend thy knee,
SCENE VI. The same. A banqueting-room in Timon's house.
Some private speech with you.
And I another
with mine enemy; I have undone three tailors; I have
I have a widow aunt, a dowager
You are afraid, and therein the wiser. If you buy
Tokens and letters which she did re-send;
verify as much in his beard: be has no more
Hath pawn'd an open hand in sign of love;
That may be, for you bear a many superfluously, and
I understand thy looks: that pretty Welsh
to undertake this business, which he knows is not to
Becomes more mock'd than fear'd; so our decrees,
We are convented
I am glad to see you mad.
I do not know: friends all but now, even now,
Therein thou wrong'st thy children mightily.
night, where each of us fell in praise of our
But I will lift the down-trod Mortimer
Came he not home to-night?
In the very end of harvest!
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
But yesternight: when all athwart there came
For so I have strew'd it in the common ear,
Of princely fellows, shalt hereafter find
Killing in relapse of mortality.
Knowing nought, like dogs, but following.
I doubt not but to ride as fast as York:
With some diffused song: upon their sight,
There lie, and there thy character: there these;
Exit
Was near at hand: ne'er long'd my mother so
When as the one is wounded with the bait,
chapped hands and threw up their sweaty night-caps
Thou wert better gall the devil, Salisbury:
Unless you please to enter in the castle
To the Fool
Sans witchcraft could not.
My lord, you once did love me.
Can do no more.
After my death the one half of my lands,
At any Syracusian marts and fairs;
Save that Euriphile must be Fidele.
If that the Dauphin there, thy princely son,
Thy tender-hefted nature shall not give
My lord, these faults are easy, quickly answered:
they come will tell you more: for my part, I only
With eyes best seeing, heaven's fiery eye,
Contaminate our fingers with base bribes,
You know me, do you not?
To kill, I grant, is sin's extremest gust;
and thou shalt be welcome.
How is't, my lord? how look you?
As thou art to thyself:
I saw not better sport these seven years' day:
according to Fates and Destinies and such odd
You can endure the livery of a nun,
labour ill bestowed.
Here, my lord.
A right good mark-man! And she's fair I love.
O, my heart!
To taunt at slackness. Canidius, we
If haply you my father do suspect
Nor cease his flow of riot: takes no account
That he that breaks a stick of Gloucester's grove
With such delightful pleasing harmony.
impossibility, and knowing I had no such purpose? I
Stands in attainder of eternal shame:
To offer service to the Duke of Hereford,
Then will she get the upshoot by cleaving the pin.
Is this the alliance that he seeks with France?
On fortune's cap we are not the very button.
And liberty plucks justice by the nose;
The south-fog rot him!
What tidings send our scouts? I prithee, speak.
Nor satisfying us.
SCENE I. The same.
Know that this gold must coin a stratagem,
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me
But, sirrah, mark, we use
Strike up the drums; and let the tongue of war
Go in, and weep not; all things shall be well.
another Nan; but, I detest, an honest maid as ever
Marry, then, sweet wag, when thou art king, let not
warning: the deputy cannot abide a whoremaster: if
Omit we all their dole and woe:
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand;
The name
which I hear from common rumours: now Lord Timon's
doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan: fetch me a
She's such a one, that, were I well assured
I would Friar Peter--
Care is no cure, but rather corrosive,
A drop of water in the breaking gulf,
So do each lord, and either greet him not,
Behold, I have a weapon;
But what he did being childish?
You have as little honesty as honour,
My lady, to the manner of the days,
In mere oppugnancy: the bounded waters
The more I hate, the more he follows me.
He doth nothing but frown, as who should say 'If you
Kent, sir, the banish'd Kent; who in disguise
Now tell me, brother Clarence, what think you
Where with it I may appear a gentleman;
More than the world enjoys.
There was no money in't: not Hercules
Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than
Of life at once untie: poor venomous fool
SCENE I. Westminster Abbey.
Then treasons make me wish myself a beggar,
Who, busied in his majesty, surveys
As waters to the sucking of a gulf.
SCENE X. Between the two camps.
We cannot keep the town.
with him: let me alone. How do you, Malvolio? how
Such aid as I can spare you shall command;
A marble monument!
Where the warlike Smalus,
To search the secret treasons of the world:
That therefore only are reputed wise
To sheathe his knife in us. He is attach'd;
Not of that dye which their investments show,
If yet your gentle souls fly in the air
The gift doth stretch itself as 'tis received,
Dissolves to water and doth lose his form.
Thou hast look'd thyself into my grace,
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
Senators,  and C	Weapons, weapons, weapons!
Betwixt thy begging and my meditation.
No, no; when Fortune means to men most good,
Who loves to lie with me,
Nay, but his jesting spirit; which is now crept into
Ready to catch each other by the throat,
Then meet me forthwith at the notary's;
Then leave him out.
Young Arthur is my son, and he is lost:
[Within]  Faith, no; he comes too late;
Less valiant than the virgin in the night
God-den to you all, god-den to you all.
Thou ran'st a tilt in honour of my love
And youthful still! in your doublet and hose this
I am Pericles of Tyre: but tell me now
Exeunt
Himself to Rome; his spirit is come in,
Burns with revenging fire; whose hopeful colours
My lord your son drew on my master.
I more incline to Somerset than York:
We shall not find like opportunity.
conjure and raise devils, but I'll see some issue of
'Shylock, we would have moneys:' you say so;
Come, and take choice of all my library,
Express'd and not express'd. But when this ring
Which, as her winks, and nods, and gestures
have now found thee; when I lose thee again, I care
We drink this health to you.
general run then? were not that a botchy core?
From men of royal siege, and my demerits
Some haste, my lord! well, fare you well, my lord:
every man to his business.
I beg the law, the law, upon his head.
oft, which now again you are most apt to play the
Within there! Flaminius! Servilius!
ANTIPHOLUS
Tell thou the tale: but hadst thou not crossed me,
Fresh kings are come to Troy: to-morrow
Go bid the priests do present sacrifice
Well, come what will, I'll tarry at home.
'Tis in few words, but spacious in effect;
Thou with an eagle art inspired then.
Such is the fulness of my heart's content.
As ever hit my nostril. So, up with it.
Therefore no kiss.
The father of this seeming lady and
swear, and my father's soul, the work ish ill done;
Before did satisfy you. If you'll patch a quarrel,
Before the always wind-obeying deep
But not a niggard of your speech: how goes't?
The mutual conference that my mind hath had,
Hail!
You must say 'paragon:' a paramour is, God bless us,
Madam, there is at the gate a young gentleman much
It will be pastime passing excellent,
He found it then;
Ere I arise, I will prefer my sons;
Out of his grace he adds.
Seem'd all one mutual cry: I never heard
O Tamora! thou bear'st a woman's face,--
O ill-dispersing wind of misery!
Nay, I will win my wager better yet
Circumstantial and the Lie Direct.
Exit
since the death of Hermione, visited that removed
Exit
Enter GEORGE
Romeo, the hate I bear thee can afford
And, for a minister of my intent,
Stay: the king.
And not deface your honour with reproach?
Be woe for me, more wretched than he is.
For look where Beatrice, like a lapwing, runs
Go, go, up to the leads; the lord mayor knocks.
You keep a constant temper.
Go, see him out at gates, and follow him,
praise for creating. If she had partaken of my
Rough quarries, rocks and hills whose heads touch heaven
I saw him hold Lord Percy at the point
Since God so graciously hath brought to light
The edge of that day's celebration
Rich pearls upon thee.
Our Perdita is found.
Who prologue-like your humble patience pray,
'Oman, art thou lunatics? hast thou no
He is as disproportion'd in his manners
Have you seen my cousin?
Who from my cabin tempted me to walk
Exeunt
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND
Having no warrant.
bottom, like the bay of Portugal.
This hand should chop it off, and with the
And with the clamour keep her still awake.
Hubert, away with him; imprison him;
Is not this a rare fellow, my lord? he's as good at
Destruction fang mankind! Earth, yield me roots!
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
Preposterous ass, that never read so far
That you may ruminate.
sworn upon't she never shrouded any but lazars.
Bring forth the body of old Salisbury,
In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms,
You bring me out. Soft! comes he not here?
Exit
To wash this blood off from my guilty hand:
His father never was so true begot:
To watch the night in storms, the day in cold,
I know thee too; and more than that I know thee,
SIR NATHANIEL retires
With hands as pale as milk;
The dreadful motion of a murderous thought;
Upon his death-bed he by will bequeath'd
Which were inshell'd when Marcius stood for Rome,
Neither entitled in the other's heart.
But mice and rats, and such small deer,
A mangled shadow: perchance to-morrow
and give it his son for an apple.
'But for mine own part, my lord, I could be well
Mustardseed.
But mark, poor knight,
You say you are a better soldier:
To tie thee to my strong correction.
With thee awhile: determine on some course,
wager, first begins to crow?
These My lips,
Comes at the last and with a little pin
Never trust me, then; and by all means stir on the
Did you go to 't so young? Were you a gamester at
kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.
Peace with his soul, heaven, if it be thy will!
As I, thus wrong'd, hence unbelieved go!
O infinite virtue, comest thou smiling from
Can witness with me that it is not so
Who is here so rude that would not be a Roman? If
and then to return and swear the lies he forges.
Nor knows he how to live but by the spoil,
That, Talbot dead, great York might bear the name.
Let her come in.
And with what imitation you can borrow
Whip him. Were't twenty of the greatest tributaries
The one for ever earn'd a royal husband;
Exeunt
This speedy and quick appearance argues proof
I do not talk much.
I thank thee, Meg; these words content me much.
Sweet father, do so; set it on your head.
How tastes it? is it bitter? forty pence, no.
And from his holiness use all your power
change, would give an eye to boot.
Asmath,
Both warbling of one song, both in one key,
She is thy enemy, and I thy friend:
If I had such a tire, this face of mine
To make cold nymphs chaste crowns; and thy broom -groves,
Answering the letter of the oracle,
My heart laments that virtue cannot live
Sends you his princely commendations,
Of thousand friends; then in a moment, see
Respecting her that's gone. Besides, the gods
'Tis not our husbandry.
Ay, sir; where lies that? if 'twere a kibe,
Now, brother of Gloucester, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
Now, in good time, here comes the Duke of York.
In Egypt sits at dinner, and will make
Enter JULIET
And what loss is it to be rid of care?
Most resolute Pompey!
wife about her husband's neck, hardly to be shook
Ay, marry, sir, now it begins to work.
And we their hands.
Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him,
With needless jealosy;
And takes him by the beard; kisses the gashes
Of their dispatch.
Inquire the Jew's house out, give him this deed
Farewell, York's wife, and queen of sad mischance:
She that your worship loves?
Whereat the great Lord of Northumberland,
As offer'd mercy is. What was the last
And unbound the rest, and then come in the other.
Lest you be cropp'd before you come to prime.
So do I wish the crown, being so far off;
So many hours must I take my rest;
It is well.
Upon thy foul disease. Revoke thy doom;
He is not lolling on a lewd day-bed,
Whilst I can shake my sword or hear the drum.
he would show most love. When yet he was but
about him, to signify wall; and let him hold his
I ask'd his blessing, and from first to last
Doubt not, my lord, they shall be well opposed.
SCENE VIII. Venice. A street.
[Within]  Madam!
Bring them, I pray thee, with imagined speed
'Tis nothing but some bond, that he is enter'd into
Upon my life, I am a lord indeed
To whom I do appeal; and in whose name
Hast thou no care of me? shall I abide
Thou wilt prove his. Take him to prison, officer:
Dispute it like a man.
Bagot, forbear; thou shalt not take it up.
An you will not be answered with reason, I must die.
I have this day received a traitor's judgment,
Shall witness live in brass of this day's work:
Enter a Courtezan
What is this same?
Without some image of the affected merit.
Go levy men, and make prepare for war;
Welcome! one mess is like to be your cheer:
Madam, I will, if suddenly I may.
And all the unlawful issue that their lust
A commodity in question, I warrant you. Come, we'll obey you.
Farewell, proud Rome; till Lucius come again,
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
He is a noble Roman and well given.
down by lawful counsel, and straight away for
This judgment of the heavens, that makes us tremble,
O Griffith, sick to death!
Naked in bed, Iago, and not mean harm!
there are ways to recover the general again: you
In verity you did; my bones bear witness,
It hath been taught us from the primal state,
SCENE II. A forest near Rome. Horns and cry of hounds heard.
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
No, nor your manhood that durst make you stay.
Our lusty English, all with purpled hands,
one Cassio entreats her a little favour of speech:
Takes his keys
I did but smile till now:
lamely in the verse.
afterwards.
The king his father call'd Guiderius,--Jove!
I cannot taint with fear. What's the boy Malcolm?
Edmund is dead, my lord.
So his familiars to his buried fortunes
Should I, in these my borrow'd flaunts, behold
Mark it, nuncle:
Than they are to their virtues; which is nothing.
Was rightful heir unto the English crown
When Caesar says 'do this,' it is perform'd.
His companies unletter'd, rude and shallow,
good opportunities for the ork. 'Pless my soul!
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
Hast thou not dropp'd from heaven?
Send fair-play orders and make compromise,
The tiger now hath seized the gentle hind;
Help me this once, that France may get the field.
Why, whither shall we go?
Of their dead bodies!
AEdiles, seize him!
have my music for nothing.
Who kept him in captivity till he died.
son and scared my choughs from the chaff, I had not
Thy tongue, thy face, thy limbs, actions and spirit,
be, I will marry thee, and to that end I have been
Come, wife, let's in, and learn to govern better;
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Think, thy slave man rebels, and by thy virtue
Go find him out,
And you embrace the occasion to depart.
And jealous Oberon would have the child
thousand salads ere we light on such another herb.
I vow'd, base knight, when I did meet thee next,
Another alarum. The Volsces fly, and MARCIUS follows them to the gates
And for thy sake have I shed many a tear:
Raise me this beggar, and deny 't that lord;
How now, my lord, what say the citizens?
And did him service: he touch'd the ports desired,
At a word, I am not.
and a pair of sweet gloves.
BISHOP
Hew down and fell the hardest-timber'd oak.
Hautboys playing loud music. A great banquet  served in; FLAVIUS and others attending; then enter  TIMON, ALCIBIADES, Lords, Senators, and VENTIDIUS.  Then comes, dropping, after all, APEMANTUS, discontentedly, like himself
He was excellent indeed, madam: the king very
Enter a Gentleman
To any tongue, speak it of what it will.
To unbar these locks. My conscience, thou art fetter'd
Signior, it is the Moor.
I cannot tell.
And drop my blood for drachmas, than to wring
tongues, and my horse is argument for them all:
Lucius, I will.
Shall find him by his large and portly size.
As good!
Smiling at grief. Was not this love indeed?
[To HERO]  Well, niece, I trust you will be ruled
O, true, good Catesby: bid him levy straight
When he was retrograde, I think, rather.
protest your cowardice. You have killed a sweet
How! of me?
Follow'd his enemy king, and did him service
A heavy heart bears not a nimble tongue:
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Than drops of blood were in my father's veins.
There's but one down; the son is fled.
The fear of that withholds my present aid.
Aside
Come hither from the furrow and be merry:
between yourself and him, he shall not exceed you
Enter FENTON and Host
Make mingle with rattling tabourines;
Faith, we may put up our pipes, and be gone.
Dies
matter of more weight; good Isis, I beseech thee!
Half all men's hearts are his.
A royal nobleness: I must embrace thee:
Why, this is the world's soul; and just of the
implore secrecy,--that the king would have me
The aweless lion could not wage the fight,
Content yourself. God knows I loved my niece;
And once again bestride our foaming steeds,
If Warwick knew in what estate he stands,
Enter ORLANDO
Let go, slave, or thou diest!
Yet, in protection of their tender ones,
To prove him tyrant this reason may suffice,
Bloodstained with these valiant combatants.
Why, say, fair queen, whence springs this deep despair?
Who do prepare to meet him at the gates,
I humbly do beseech you of your pardon
Where's Cotus? my master calls
Here they do the ceremonies belonging, and make the  circle; BOLINGBROKE or SOUTHWELL reads, Conjuro te, and c. It thunders and lightens terribly; then the Spirit riseth
her home again. She hath despised me rejoicingly,
Her husband being alive. Now then we'll use
He has his health and ampler strength indeed
Or on Diana's altar to protest
Art thou so bare and full of wretchedness,
Behold yond simpering dame,
Come, will this wood take fire?
His jest will savour but of shallow wit,
That well by heart hath conn'd his embassage:
Which you might from relation likewise reap,
On him, her brother, me, her master, hitting
--Is't possible?--Confess--handkerchief!--O devil!--
That you have no such mirrors as will turn
O Cressid! O false Cressid! false, false, false!
Hist! Romeo, hist! O, for a falconer's voice,
Re-enter MALVOLIO
It was proclaimed a year's imprisonment, to be taken
a heavy reckoning to make, when all those legs and
I saw them at the prison: a saucy friar,
Or hide your heads like cowards, and fly hence.
Patience, good sir,
ANTIPHOLUS
And stain the sun with fog, as sometime clouds
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent
they say one would speak to her and stand in hope of
Till bones and flesh and sinews fall away,
There is a vent of blood and something blown:
Patience, good lady; wizards know their times:
For once, upon a raw and gusty day,
Believe her lips in opening it. Proceed.
These news I must confess are full of grief;
And out of question so it is sometimes,
For aye austerity and single life.
himself out of his five sentences.
I'll bring you thither, my lord, if you'll
Exit
That can such sweet use make of what they hate,
Is crown'd so soon, and broke his solemn oath?
And I will be revenged on them all.
Exeunt all except the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, the Abbot of Westminster, and DUKE OF AUMERLE
Enter OBERON and squeezes the flower on TITANIA's eyelids
Not now, sweet Desdemona; some other time.
CANIDIUS marcheth with his land army one way over  the stage; and TAURUS, the lieutenant of OCTAVIUS  CAESAR, the other way. After their going in, is heard the noise of a sea-fight
Exeunt
If now I court not but omit, my fortunes
To cast up, with a pair of anchoring hooks,
I will then give it you soundly.
His humorous predominance; yea, watch
Made by the joiner squirrel or old grub,
This borrow'd passion stands for true old woe;
is love a generation of vipers? Sweet lord, who's
not have things cool.
No, no: but all this did I know before.
Full well shalt thou perceive how much I dare.
No matter, sir, what I have heard or known.
Why, love forswore me in my  mother's womb:
Well, I will lock his counsel in my breast;
Besides the thane of Cawdor. But 'tis strange:
What dost thou mean by shaking of thy head?
company: banish plump Jack, and banish all the world.
Go, break among the press, and find a way out
Not any yet:
He shent our messengers; and we lay by
which your modesties have not craft enough to colour:
Yes: and you heard what the other told me?
And cheers these hands that slew thy sire and brother
O, sir, things must be as they may; and what a man
Gilded tombs do worms enfold.
On pain to be found false and recreant,
As I did him, and speak of something wildly
Spread thy close curtain, love-performing night,
At thy service.
Must be content to think you old, and so--
Enter SILVIA, VALENTINE, THURIO, and SPEED
Les ongles? nous les appelons de nails.
My food, my fortune and my sweet hope's aim,
and that soundly: you cannot tell who's your friend:
What I can do I will; and more I will
commonwealth; as which of you shall not? With this
Why, Jessica, I say!
Knit earth and heaven together!
In time will find their fit rewards. That seal,
With spritely fire and motion; whose simple touch,
and some have greatness thrown upon them.' I was
Enter TOUCHSTONE
Signior Baptista, for this fiend of hell,
And ring is yours; if not, the foul opinion
SCENE I. A church.
The obsequies that I for thee will keep
Ha!
But in his motion like an angel sings,
She desires to speak with you in her closet, ere you
Of pain: nay, we must think men are not gods,
With us to break his neck.
Music
And on the cause and question now in hand
More company! The fiend is strong within him.
never come in mine own great chamber again else, of
Commanded me to follow, and attend
Since which she was removed to Kimbolton,
I'll do't; but it dislikes me.
Demetrius, here's the son of Lucius;
Monster, come, put some lime upon your fingers, and
trick you served me when I took my leave of Madam
Well, is it, is it?
I'll be your purse-bearer and leave you
Among fresh female buds shall you this night
Let it go all.
And he's indicted falsely.
The king doth keep his revels here to-night:
To pay this debt of love but to a brother,
Yet our old love made a particular force,
In my voluptuousness: your wives, your daughters,
Why, then, it seems, some certain snatch or so
And fit for great employment, worthy lord.
And hath challenged thee.
That very dogs disdain'd: and in this habit
Note this before my notes;
I know no pain they can inflict upon him
Many a man would take you at your word,
Almost to bursting, and the big round tears
Set your heart at rest:
form of marriage, and you shall recount their
Husband, I'll dine above with you to-day
Enter NORFOLK
For Thurio, he intends, shall wed his daughter;
The hour that fools should ask.
Enter MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE
'Tween man and man they weigh not every stamp;
king hold his purpose, I will win for him an I can;
This was so and no slumber. Dreams are toys:
Not I, my lord; sith true nobility
KENT is put in the stocks
Which being sealed interchangeably,
This is the prison. What is he lies here?
By you invited, do attend your presence.
That you express content; which we will pay,
Here comes lean Jack, here comes bare-bone.
High-reaching Buckingham grows circumspect.
carbonado your shanks: draw, you rascal; come your ways.
Array'd in flames like to the prince of fiends,
Exit BAPTISTA
Tread not upon him. Masters all, be quiet;
Since arm from arm that voice doth us affray,
Did run pure blood: and many lusty Romans
The first and happiest hearers of the town,
Enforce the present execution
SCENE I. Before Orleans.
till the bell have told eleven. Heaven bless the
Confirm his welcome with some special favour.
And let not search and inquisition quail
I am hers:
A maid of grace and complete majesty--
Help, ho!--Lieutenant,--sir,--Montano,--sir;
Thou hast hit it: come, sit on me.
The which when any shall not gratify,
Re-enter Players with recorders
might see from far some forty truncheoners draw to
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
give me the poor allottery my father left me by
I know you two are rival enemies:
SCENE III. Wilds in Gloucestershire.
Since the physician at your father's died?
Than prosecute the meanest or the best
Men give like gods; but when they weep and kneel,
Which once,' quoth Forrest, 'almost changed my mind;
Our overplus of shipping will we burn;
do it with unwashed hands too.
I know not by what power I am made bold,
taking a beggar without less quality. But how comes
Five times in that ere once in our five wits.
It was well done of you to take him at his word.
Great is his comfort in this earthly vale,
Nay, sit, nay, sit, good cousin Capulet;
Kneels
Is this the balsam that the usuring senate
horse in Padua to begin his wooing that would
Away with him, I say! hang him with his pen and
I am sorry
For death remember'd should be like a mirror,
Tincture or lustre in her lip, her eye,
How say you by the French lord, Monsieur Le Bon?
I swear he is true--hearted; and a soul
Dost think I am so muddy, so unsettled,
Which he confesseth to be manifold,
Most noble empress, you have heard of me?
Deliver'd weeping.
our guests? 'tis well they are whispering: clamour
Well may you prosper!
This wretch hath part confess'd his villany:
Can arbitrate this cause betwixt us twain;
Thus stands it with me: upon a true contract
A scar nobly got, or a noble scar, is a good livery
to hear his monstrous devices.
And one, already, of the privy council.
whole realms on fire: Of such a nature is his
O, turn thy edged sword another way;
Caesar has had great wrong.
Awaked you not with this sore agony?
'Twas my duty, sir.
For that they will not intercept my tale:
Give us a prince of blood, a son of Priam,
For though fond nature bids us an lament,
Where are thy tenants and thy followers?
I doubt it not, sir; but you will curse your
But since thou lovest, love still and thrive therein,
Together with all famous colleges
My date of life out for his sweet life's loss.
That has he knows not what. Nature, what things there are
'Twas my inheritance, as the earldom was.
Had been my father's sons! then had my prize
Have laid this woe here. O, 'tis pregnant, pregnant!
Antonio, I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino.
Thou didst not know on't. Who comes here? O heavens,
A son who is the theme of honour's tongue;
Enter a Messenger
as truly as a man of falsehood may.
Enter GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, ERPINGHAM, with all his host: SALISBURY and WESTMORELAND
To sound more sweetly in great Caesar's ear
My heart is great; but it must break with silence,
Thou know'st that all my fortunes are at sea;
Part of your cares you give me with your crown.
So honour peereth in the meanest habit.
That, to pay grief, must of poor patience borrow.
There is a world elsewhere.
Is thither gone, to crave the French king's sister
Gloucester, why doubt'st thou of my forwardness?
He does fair justice; if he give me way,
won honour than in the embracements of his bed where
before they are married, would she say?
Urge not my father's anger, Eglamour,
For, good King Henry, thy decay I fear.
To have her match'd: and having now provided
meeting between him and my daughter.--My honourable
When thou didst make him master of thy bed,
The Gordian knot of it he will unloose,
blunt as, God help, I would desire they were; but,
Prevent it, resist it, let it not be so,
rest; for there is nothing in the between but
A prince call'd Hector,--Priam is his father,--
with these tidings.
As with the meat, some undeserved fault
O comfortable friar! where is my lord?
In rank and not-to-be endured riots. Sir,
For he is but a bastard to the time
The other half comes to the general state,
hadst been an ignis fatuus or a ball of wildfire,
I have spoke; let him follow.
Or shall we beat the stones about thine ears?
gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
Thy death, which is no more. Thou art not thyself;
On every trifle. When he returns from hunting,
Born in Northamptonshire and eldest son,
Admit him entrance, Griffith: but this fellow
You, that are king, though he do wear the crown,
Thy nature did commence in sufferance, time
Your heart is burst, you have lost half your soul;
Go fetch me a quart of sack; put a toast in't.
Alack, let it blood.
That any purblind eye may find it out.
Yet, if you please to hold him off awhile,
one, I tell you, that will not miss you morning nor
not wooed in good time: if the prince be too
'Hath a dog money? is it possible
Why, Dromio?
Does Bridget paint still, Pompey, ha?
Then walk we forth, even to the market-place,
They turn to vicious forms, ten times more ugly
the issue?
streets, and no man regards it.
Most noble Caesar, shalt thou have report
sufficient testimony that I have enjoyed the dearest
To tell the passion of my sovereign's heart;
they shook hands and swore brothers. Your If is the
With his own hand did slay his youngest son,
Exit
Well said, Lord Sands;
Forgetting any other home but this.
Welcome, brave Warwick! What brings thee to France?
That your activity may defeat and quell
We are all undone, unless
not have made him so ill, though he had been but two
I thought so then:--I'll kill myself for grief:--
discourse, an excellent musician, and her hair shall
sometimes fashioning them like Pharaoh's soldiers
My lord archbishop;
I cannot believe that in her; she's full of
And say you would present her at the leet,
Re-enter BUCKINGHAM and the rest
'Tis the French Dauphin sueth to thee thus.
What place this is; and all the skill I have
What woman is this?
To shape my legs of an unequal size;
Now, my lord, what shall we do, if we perceive
And sometime lurk I in a gossip's bowl,
Gazing on that which seems to dim thy sight?
see the light of our fairies. Remember, son Slender,
Some beast rear'd this; there does not live a man.
Shall I lay perjury upon my soul?
Set me where you stand.
Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than snow,
For I will kiss her.
Rouse up thy youthful blood, be valiant and live.
That I may call thee something more than man
Tell him he hath made a match with such a wrangler
I'll bear thee hence; and let them fight that will,
Be bride to you, if you this assurance;
Judas I am,--
With very easy arguments of love,
The horse were merely lost; the mares would bear
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
servant, under his master's command transporting a
But none of us cared for Kate;
O, the gibbet-maker! he says that he hath taken
As much I wish all good befortune you.
courtesy! 'tis so, indeed. Yet again your fingers
Or well or ill, as this day's battle's fought.
Then, father Salisbury, kneel we together;
O, fie upon thee, slanderer!
You are welcome, sir: adieu.
What, and wouldst climb a tree?
So please you, for I never heard it yet;
And nature, stronger than his just occasion,
I doubt some foul play: would the night were come!
But to confront the visage of offence?
Nay, take away this scolding crookback rather.
Of men's impossibilities, have preserved thee.
You, Pyramus' father: myself, Thisby's father:
Poor Cassio's smiles, gestures and light behavior,
And be you blithe and bonny,
And let my liver rather heat with wine
Do lace the severing clouds in yonder east:
Of his profession, that his good receipt
Lie would not yield to age.
Mark the encounter: if he love her not
Is it come to this?
To prove thou hast a true-divining heart,
In the remembrance of so fair a dream.
I'll make you quiet. What, cheerly, my hearts!
Tell me, good fellow, camest thou here by chance,
Why, there's a wench! Come on, and kiss me, Kate.
To thee be worship! and thy saints for aye
I should be author to dishonour you!
Go to, a bargain made: seal it, seal it; I'll be the
the attempt I vow.
Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO
She will sing any man at first sight.
Let me look back upon thee. O thou wall,
What time I threw the people's suffrages
Madam, myself have limed a bush for her,
that Petrarch flowed in: Laura to his lady was but a
Intended or committed was this fault?
Falsely to draw me in these vile suspects.
Of thine or mine, is most in Helena.
Now God help thee!
where he answers again,
I know it pleaseth neither of us well.
epilogue, or to hear a Bergomask dance between two
Exit
If of my freedom 'tis the main part, take
contemplation, mark, and denotement of her parts and
I know them both; th' other's a jeweller.
church! Company, villanous company, hath been the
foolish sapling, and must be bowed as I would have
That would I, were I of all kingdoms king.
Cordelia, Cordelia! stay a little. Ha!
Ha, ha, ha!
Go thou to Juliet, help to deck up her;
Do as I bid thee: there's no more to say,
And given to fornications, and to taverns and sack
Hercules, master.
Sword, hold thy temper; heart, be wrathful still:
Love thyself last: cherish those hearts that hate thee;
Scorn and defiance; slight regard, contempt,
Let me excuse me, and believe me so,
So Got udge me, that is a virtuous mind.
The great metropolis and see of Rome:
But I will find him when he lies asleep,
And sight-outrunning were not; the fire and cracks
Nor nothing monstrous neither?
As I subscribe not that, nor any other,
My presence, like a robe pontifical,
morning your departure hence, it requires haste of
Ah, would she break from hence, that this my body
The mayor in courtesy show'd me the castle,
Mine eyes, even sociable to the show of thine,
ANTIPHOLUS
Exeunt GONERIL, EDMUND, and OSWALD
And eke out our performance with your mind.
A will that bars the title of thy son.
A wife of me, though there my hope be done.
Your hand, Leonato; we will go together.
An if thou wilt not tell me all things true.
What, to perverseness? you uncivil lady,
My resolution's placed, and I have nothing
Are such allow'd infirmities that honesty
Will we return unto thy father's house
I feel such sharp dissension in my breast,
How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt tears:
shall our poor city find: and all this is long of
No, my good lords, it is not that offends;
Part of thy father may be saved in thee.
And now changed to 'The Beggar and the King.'
Sir, 'tis your brother Cassius at the door,
O perjured woman! thou dost stone my heart,
I must rather give it the rein, for it runs against Hector.
hundred bastards, he would have paid for the nursing
Uncle, give me your hands: nay, dry your eyes;
Which with her dowry shall be counterpoised.
It's almost morning, is't not?
Enter the Lord Mayor and his train
What you have done--before our army hear me.
Let not your private discord keep away
Not sorting with a nuptial ceremony.
Unless good counsel may the cause remove.
And lofty proud encroaching tyranny,
More than our brother is our chastity.
The wood began to move.
Upon my blessing, I command thee go.
Give Richard leave to live till Richard die?
and hasty, like a Scotch jig, and full as
O, keep me from their worse than killing lust,
horse is tied up safe: out, sword, and to a sore
Thy woes will make them sharp, and pierce like mine.
Thy Brutus bid me give it thee, and I
Doth all the winter-time, at still midnight,
So much misconstrued in his wantonness.
Coriolanus banished!
My wretchedness unto a row of pins,
Draw nearer, honest Flaminius. Thy lord's a
As birds do, mother.
I'll meddle nor make no more i' the matter.
Here in these confines slily have I lurk'd,
Ay, ay: away with her to execution!
That he should be so abject, base and poor,
Because I love him I must pity him.
Dry up your tears, and stick your rosemary
My soul is heavy, and I fain would sleep.
And Jove forbid there should be done amongst us
Thou'lt show thy mercy and remorse more strange
And fill'd with honour, to my kingly guest
Bear me, good friends, where Cleopatra bides;
Of what hath come to pass: for when she saw--
Were he in favour as in humour alter'd.
I do beseech thy greatness, give him blows
The cardinal's and Sir Thomas Lovell's heads
In truth, I know it is a sin to be a mocker: but,
And therefore thou mayst think my 'havior light:
Who starves the ears she feeds, and makes them hungry,
Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner
sweet; deliver this paper into the royal hand of the
But dies, betray'd to fortune by your strife.
And this small packet of Greek and Latin books:
could carry cannon by our sides: I would it might
Enter Pandar, Bawd, and BOULT
Alas, good lady!
Retire, we have engaged ourselves too far:
What means our cousin, that he stares and looks
And I, hence fleeting, here remain with thee. Away!
Away at once with love or jealousy!
Would I had done't
In the base court? Come down? Down, court!
time enough to go home. What shall I say I have
And in that habit, when Slender sees his time
It were convenient you had such a devil:
Which falls into mine ears as profitless
That which, to appear itself, must not yet be
Were't not that we stand up against them all,
Your ships already are in readiness.
Yields to the theft: had he been where he thought,
Thou Icarus; thy life to me is sweet:
Oppose against their wills.
Cannot endure my absence.
His death was so effected: better 'twere
Thou earth, thou! speak.
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
I was enforced to send it after him;
What, are ye daunted now? now will ye stoop?
And soar with them above a common bound.
This man hath bewitch'd the bosom of my child;
of sugar, five pound of currants, rice,--what will
held my duty speedily to acquaint you withal;
To Ireland will you lead a band of men,
Not possible.
You must, sir, change persons with me, ere you make
cannot show it in rhyme; I have tried: I can find
He took good rest to-night;
Enter the Lord Mayor and CATESBY
Was by a beggar-woman stolen away;
But meditating with two deep divines;
Signior Baptista, my business asketh haste,
In aspiration lifts him from the earth.
variable service, two dishes, but to one table:
If he should stay at home to-day for fear.
He gave his honours to the world again,
How does the boy?
But never more be officer of mine.
capons and clocks the tongues of bawds and dials the
For Suffolk's duke, may he be suffocate,
That, his apparent open guilt omitted,
Clarence, beware; thou keep'st me from the light:
It is no boast, being ask'd, to say we are.
My being here it is that holds thee hence:
I leave your highness. Grandam, I will pray,
a postmaster's boy.
Yield, or thou diest.
services, that you would think that I had a hundred
To be so good to Caesar as to hear me,
Therefore, good Brutus, be prepared to hear:
His sons he there proclaim'd the kings of kings:
ACT I
reading it he changed almost into another man.
Age is unnecessary: on my knees I beg
Therein, ye gods, you make the weak most strong;
Ay, sir, for three months.
Well, my good lady.
Thou hast a cruel nature and a bloody.
And if they fall, they dash themselves to pieces.
And oftentimes excusing of a fault
Where men enforced do speak anything.
Of thy intents desires instruction,
A merchant of incomparable wealth.
Should drive upon thy new-transformed limbs,
[Aside]
Extended Asia from Euphrates;
Then, on the other side, I cheque'd my friends.
Whose fortunes Rome's best citizens applaud!
A poor soul's patience, all to make you sport.
You are a merciful general. Our general bids you
When we have laugh'd to see the sails conceive
a foolish knight,'--
Two of both kinds make up four.
Whiles others play the idiots in her eyes!
That the graves all gaping wide,
Good faith, across: but, my good lord 'tis thus;
Their cruel parricide, filling their hearers
Here is a touch; is't good?
Rather to wonder at the things you hear
My mother: father and mother is man and wife; man
And therein negligent; or else a fool
Which I have sometime known.
You are too much mistaken in this king:
Give her this key, and tell her, in the desk
As false, by heaven, as heaven itself is true.
a good turn.
O Caesar,
But love thee better than thou canst devise,
It hath to climb. The general's disdain'd
Not fear still to be taken: I know his heart.
He dies, and makes no sign. O God, forgive him!
I am Christophero Sly; call not me 'honour' nor
Was re-united to the crown of France.
What?
My low and humble name to propagate
Which is the better man, the greater throw
Where did you study all this goodly speech?
Where one part does disdain with cause, the other
Heaven doth truly know it.
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and DOCTOR CAIUS
By heaven, I do not, I do not, gentlemen.
I Know her women are about her: what
Are these your herd?
O, what a time have you chose out, brave Caius,
It is the Count Melun.
And am right sorry to repeat what follows
I come by note, to give and to receive.
thee: yet for the outside of thy poverty we must
Wherein my time something too prodigal
Away, I say, and bring them hither straight.
Coistrel that comes inquiring for his Tib;
His brother here and put him to the sword:
Open your gates. Come, uncle Exeter,
Sweet soul, let's in, and there expect their coming.
He will be the physician that should be the patient.
The honour and regard of such a father.
The queen hath best success when you are absent.
simply your having in beard is a younger brother's
'Tis Hamlets character. 'Naked!
'Tis now your honour, daughter, to explain
What might you think? No, I went round to work,
Exeunt
To tell us whether they will come or no!
Of many in the army: many years,
Most rude melancholy, valour gives thee place.
No; 'tis hereafter to know, but now to promise: do
To unstable slightness: purpose so barr'd,
To die before you please!
carries his house on his head; a better jointure,
Turn terror into sport: as weeds before
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
Prosperity's the very bond of love,
Would it had been so, that they
My gracious sovereign, on the western coast
Brother John Bates, is not that the morning which
That lays strong siege unto this wretch's soul.
Well it shall be so. But there is two hard things;
'An if a man did need a poison now,
Show them the unaching scars which I should hide,
DON
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain,
The greater cantle of the world is lost
If e'er thou wast thyself and these woes thine,
O, pardon me for bringing these ill news,
god, that would not extend his might, only where
Art not without ambition, but without
The blood of English shall manure the ground,
Belike his wife, acquainted with his fits,
Are you acquainted with the difference
Hence with him to the Tower; let him not speak.
I mean to stride your steed, and at all times
[To COSTARD]  Ah, you whoreson loggerhead! you were
Thy humble servant vows obedience
Nay, as I am a gentleman, I will.
[Kneeling]
As we do trace this alley up and down,
SCENE I. The forest.
More than light airs and recollected terms
Good my lord, soothe him; let him take the fellow.
Enter KING JOHN, PEMBROKE, SALISBURY, and other Lords
By my troth, I will speak my conscience of the king:
My letters say a hundred and seven galleys.
she comes weeping for her only mistress' death.
I have more charity: but say, I warn'd ye;
Take I your wish, I leap into the seas,
praising myself, who, I myself will bear witness, is
Like to Lysander sometime frame thy tongue,
Even so it was with me when I was young:
of losing.
Let him shun castles;
distraction that they were to be known by garment,
Stand thee by, friar. Father, by your leave:
Entreat thee back to Athens; who have thought
knock! Who's there, in the other devil's
In better phrase and matter than thou didst.
Saint Francis be my speed! how oft to-night
It well appears: but tell me
At the hedge-corner, in the coldest fault?
Knowing that with the shadow of his wings
Sings heavy music to thy timorous soul;
Lysander if you live, good sir, awake.
Than now they are. There be that can rule Naples
But more in Troilus thousand fold I see
And in our sight they three were taken up
Be you beneath the sky.
Was to be so unwise, to be so kind.
Which seem'd too much enkindled, and withal
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV in triumph; with GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and the rest
weeks old as yet?
To sort our nobles from our common men.
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
It alone concerns your ear. I bring no overture of
Near Birnam wood
But only seeing, all other circumstances
How far is it, my lord, to Berkeley now?
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
Holy seems the quarrel
Till the prince came, who parted either part.
Give him tending;
Pardon me, Edward, I will make amends:
Had we done so at first, we had droven them home
Made she no verbal question?
Either she hath bewitch'd me with her words,
Ned Poins and I will walk lower: if they 'scape
When a man's servant shall play the cur with him,
Sith every action that hath gone before,
'Tis so:
All my abilities in thy behalf.
This wind, you talk of, blows us from ourselves;
too cunning to be understood: what's your offence?
What is aught, but as 'tis valued?
That most ingrateful boy there by your side,
Thou art arm'd, Gloucester: let the trumpet sound:
Now, Balthasar,
I do protest I never heard of it;
And made us speak like friends: this man was riding
Came here in grace our solemnity.
So farewell, noble Lucius.
Since I have lost thee!
Not by his breath that is more miserable.
Doth teach me answers for deliverance!
DON
A friend.
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us:
rogues are marvellous poor.
Why, what a wasp-stung and impatient fool
The walls they'll tear down than forsake the siege.
And call'd Marina?
from this place, do what they can: I will walk up
After we part from Agamemnon's tent,
But that I am your most obedient servant.
To SCARUS
That speaks thy words again to do thee harm!
Give me the paper; let me read the same;
Thy niece and I, poor creatures, want our hands,
Blood hath been shed ere now, i' the olden time,
More to know
You have my consent. Let your wedding be to-morrow:
Who knows not that?
Who having pinch'd a few and made them cry,
Hark, I will tell you what our sport shall be.
Nothing, Messala.
Enter two Clowns, with spades,  and c
And let heaven
For thou art fortunate in all thy deeds.
God's secret judgment: I did dream to-night
Then 'tis but reason that I be released
of silver: there would this monster make a
An offer, uncle, that we will accept:
What do you think of me?
To such as love not sorrow; but another,
Re-enter Servants severally
Reigns solely in the breast of every man:
Go in: and tell my lady I am gone,
Will you, I pray, demand that demi-devil
Tom's a-cold.
SCENE II. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
Your lordship to accept.
To see him pass on to the Capitol.
Creatures of note for mercy-lacking uses.
you, is digt himself four yard under the
that time; and some say knives have edges. It must
Men into such strange mysteries?
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Seven? why, there were but four even now.
This castle hath a pleasant seat; the air
Pray, uncle Gloucester, mitigate this strife.
My wife--but, I protest, without desert--
As much in private, and I'll bid adieu.
But she'll not stumble.
birth, beauty, good shape, discourse, manhood,
What, madam! be dishonour'd openly,
Wearing the crown of France, till satisfied
Blue coats to tawny coats. Priest, beware your beard,
tick in a sheep than such a valiant ignorance.
Thy heart-blood I will have for this day's work.
As much as in him lies, from time to time
Away, then, with good courage! yet, I know,
brave mind than a hard hand.
By heaven, brat, I'll plague ye for that word.
I would not change it.
And heaven's artillery thunder in the skies?
'Con tutto il cuore, ben trovato,' may I say.
Poor soul, God's goodness hath been great to thee:
Upon no Christian soul but English Talbot.
suffered under that shape, I beseech you take it for
To take 't again perforce! Monster ingratitude!
Are of the adder. Which of them shall I take?
Dispose of them as thou know'st their deserts.
any weather at all, and another storm brewing;
Where is thy brother Bassianus?
There have I made my promise
As makes it light or heavy in the substance,
A housewife that by selling her desires
Unto the French the dreadful judgement-day
The heart-ache and the thousand natural shocks
To see this vaulted arch, and the rich crop
These men of Angiers: let us hear them speak
Do wrong to none: be able for thine enemy
And what he craves.
Marcius, his name?
And rouse him at the name of Crispian.
Well, Juliet, I will lie with thee to-night.
This slave-like habit? and these looks of care?
I hear of none, but the new proclamation
Draw it.
Upon his royal face there is no note
I take it, by all voices, that forthwith
Why suffer'st thou thy sons, unburied yet,
Nor be grieved: she is of good esteem,
Exeunt
Prove our commodities. O dear son Edgar,
That were to enlard his fat already pride
She's not fourteen.
My lord?
It was i' the offering!
And in her most unmitigable rage,
Who therewith angry, when it next came there,
To think that or our cause or our performance
Than for your lady's: you may gather more.
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,--
Sayest thou?
To venge me as I may and to put forth
For the gods are quick of ear, and I am sworn
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
The king should keep his word in loving us;
Such eyes the widows in Corioli wear,
All repetition: let him not ask our pardon;
'Tis to be doubted he would waken him.
I will not yield,
That nothing can allay, nothing but blood,
very nothing, and beyond the imagination of his
A glooming peace this morning with it brings;
Not he alone shall suffer what wit can make heavy
Is true as steel: leave you your power to draw,
Music. Dance
Sir,
It is decreed Hector the great must die.
I will not be myself, nor have cognition
So do counterfeits.
By the woman's means?
For 'tis thy rival. O thou senseless form,
What's the news? what's the news?
As you have whisper'd faithfully you were,
And wherefore crave you combat? or with whom?
With a thief to the gallows, for though he go as
Can be retentive to the strength of spirit;
Happy be you!
him but I am heart-burned an hour after.
Exit procession, and then a great flourish of trumpets
That solder'st close impossibilities,
And your three motives to the battle, with
which nourisheth it; and the elements once out of
wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
Behold their quarter'd fires, have both their eyes
Now, farewell, flattery: die, Andronicus;
Hath not our brother made a worthy choice?
Then weep no more. I'll send to one in Mantua,
But the true ground of all these piteous woes
The heart of Brutus yearns to think upon!
That my woe-wearied tongue is mute and dumb,
And mine that I was proud on, mine so much
Your long coat, priest, protects you; thou
Surprised him suddenly, and brought him hither,
But give thyself unto my sick desires,
Heaven doth with us as we with torches do,
Re-enter Attendants with THYREUS
Hound or spaniel, brach or lym,
I hold your dainties cheap, sir, and your
I'll fa you; do you note me?
our melancholy upon your head!
A prosperous gentleman; and to be king
Yes, bring me word, boy, if thy lord look well,
What fashion, madam shall I make your breeches?
That good Duke Humphrey traitorously is murder'd
Fall'n in the practise of a damned slave,
A speedier course than lingering languishment
Why did you so? Doth not the gentleman
to him. But I can tell you one thing, my lord, and
Proceed.
after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich
Win me and wear me; let him answer me.
Besides the gods, for this great miracle.
Loved as my father, as my master follow'd,
you any further trade with us?
Exeunt
Let me beseech your grace not to do so:
To the gold
Son to the elder brother of this man,
though, I'll be sworn, if he be so, his conceit is
As doubtful thoughts, and rash-embraced despair,
I thought as much.
If that may be, then all is well. Come, sit  down,
Is very much unto the prince and Claudio,
Tut, this was nothing but an argument
warrant, her rags and the tallow in them will burn a
Than stay, past doubt, for greater:
called me brother; and then the two kings called my
I will a round unvarnish'd tale deliver
And set the triple crown upon his head:
Falstaff do in the days of villany? Thou seest I
I will answer you with gait and entrance. But we
Good den, good den.
The music plays
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
though they be long ere they are wooed, they are
O, ho! do you come near me now? no worse man than
Your fathers taken by the silver beards,
And gird thee with the sword. Cousin of York,
Or teach thy hasty spleen to do me shame,
That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once:
fowl or a hurt wild-duck. I pressed me none but such
Some men are much to blame.
Good morrow, uncle Pandarus.
And I, forsooth, in love! I, that have been love's whip;
That dotage gives it.
Of teaching and of learning instantly.
For honesty and decent carriage,
And here I will expect thy coming.
How say you to that, Malvolio?
Our hap is loss, our hope but sad despair;
Now forth, lord constable and princes all,
Is it your will? Speak, sir. Prepare my horses.
Whom, you may say, if't please you, Fleance kill'd,
ACT V
And in her bosom I'll unclasp my heart
It is no vicious blot, murder, or foulness,
Conformable as other household Kates.
And I with him; for he hath done me wrong.
She's limed, I warrant you: we have caught her, madam.
And the premised flames of the last day
Here comes Navarre.
Not a jot more, my lord.
Aside to CARDINAL
His heart-struck injuries.
With fearful bloody issue arbitrate.
That ever this fellow should have fewer words than a
As howling after music.
peril: I had rather than a thousand pound he were
Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
Exeunt
And yet I bear a burthen like an ass,
the hour, if it so hap. Cheerly, good hearts! Out
Whose duty is deceiveable and false.
For I mine own gain'd knowledge should profane,
I am changed: I'll go sell all my land.
Away, away, be gone.
rough usage; but my mother, having power of his
that satisfaction can be none but by pangs of death
Ere thou hadst power or we had cause of fear,
One that will play the devil, sir, with you,
Heart of our numbers, soul and only spirit.
And prove a deadly bloodshed but a jest,
This found I on my tent this morning.
Is near the hate of those love not the king.
By gar, he is de coward Jack priest of de vorld; he
Draw near them then in being merciful:
It shall not neither. You, sir, come you hither;
But I a beam do find in each of three.
By working wreakful vengeance on thy foes.
Exeunt Pandar and Pirates
My Genius is rebuked; as, it is said,
Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
Let's call more help to have them bound again.
The fitchew, nor the soiled horse, goes to 't
Exeunt
To say 'Beseech you, cease.' You have made fair hands,
Is weaker than the wine; and mine own tongue
his servant; for they purpose not their death, when
And feel I am so most. O Antony,
That part of tyranny that I do bear
Like him by chance. Yet give us our dispatch:
See, Reignier, see, thy daughter prisoner!
To rain a shower of commanded tears,
liable, congruent and measurable for the afternoon:
A heaviness that's gone.
Had I been there, which am a silly woman,
To throw away the dearest thing he owed,
God speed fair Helena! whither away?
The emperor and the Earl of Armagnac?
Now could I, Casca, name to thee a man
Holloa! what storm is this?
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled,
Three thousand ducats for three months and Antonio bound.
And guardian of their bones.
As bird doth sing on bough.
But keep it till you woo another wife,
Why, this, Volumnius:
And one that is as slanderous as Satan?
Where shall we dine? O me! What fray was here?
He speaks to me. I am your master, Dromio:
now. I shall crave your forbearance a little: may
Oft have I digg'd up dead men from their graves,
With five and twenty, Regan? said you so?
Direct mine arms I may embrace his neck,
How they may be, and yet in two,
Poor bird! thou'ldst never fear the net nor lime,
No, my most worthy master; in whose breast
You mistake, sir, you mistake, sir. Pray, what do
me, Hal; God forgive thee for it! Before I knew
In noise so rude against me?
Shared dangers with you,--
Then leave this chat; and, good Biron, now prove
To start into her face, a thousand innocent shames
And so, though yours, not yours. Prove it so,
I take my leave before I have begun,
Into destruction cast him.
Nay, I'll help too.
Good night: I prithee, come.
That's but a trifle here.
Thou hast as chiding a nativity
death have good inspirations: therefore the lottery,
the ministers.
Thou cutt'st my head off with a golden axe,
And look on death itself! up, up, and see
Enter ROSALIND, with a paper, reading
I would 'twere something that would fret the string,
Plead your deserts in peace and humbleness.
But not possess'd it, and, though I am sold,
I'll fetch the general's surgeon.
I think so too.
obey'd him?
Strong both against the deed; then, as his host,
Buried this sigh in wrinkle of a smile:
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
If you will take a homely man's advice,
Come, go with me; peruse this as thou goest:
And as poor as Job?
When Lear is mad. What wilt thou do, old man?
Re-enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, and TRANIO
But when to my good lord I prove untrue,
Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit
So fun of valour that they smote the air
What kind of god art thou, that suffer'st more
This is the monstruosity in love, lady, that the will
of what's past, present, or to come; insensible of
When death doth close his tender dying eyes,
And I with tears do wash the blood away.
Good morrow, coz.
me.'
Your graces are right welcome.
Which God's dew quench! Therefore I say again,
Transformed Timon to our city's love
My first son.
A parley sounded. Enter REIGNIER on the walls
That prosperously I have attempted and
As she is mine, I may dispose of her:
Exit LONGAVILLE
He is a friend.
Since all and every part of what we would
I know not, Menas,
man with wishing, therefore I will die a woman with grieving.
Wash'd it with tears? Hence from her! let her die.
But we'll outface them, and outswear them too.
On pain of death, no person be so bold
Wouldst have me rescue thee from this reproach?
way home again.
But, were I you, he never should be mine.
Enter OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, CASSIO, and Attendants
My lord, 'tis but begun.
To several subjects. Heaven hath my empty words;
sweet knaves,
Begins his golden progress in the east.
Perchance he will not mind me.
Wherein toward me my homely stars have fail'd
Too bad for bad report: and he that hath her--
With sleight and manhood stole to Rhesus' tents,
Whose want, and whose delay, is strew'd with sweets,
This is against our pleasure.
Whipt first, sir, and hanged after.
Such as the daughter of Agenor had,
Come quickly, Montague, or I am dead.
Proclaim a pardon to the soldiers fled
That their hot blood may spin in English eyes,
If these be motives weak, break off betimes,
For Italy and Caesar. More, Domitius;
Take in that kingdom, and enfranchise that;
But yet keep time in all. Will you withdraw?
If you spite it for my sake, I will spite it for
Enter LORENZO
From forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept
Wherefore to Dover, sir?
broke bread: we had an hour's talk of that wart. I
Against the pope and count his friends my foes.
Methinks a woman of this valiant spirit
my uttermost power: he is not-God be praised and
And on your family's old monument
Once name you derogately, when to sound your name
For so I thought I was a cave-keeper,
for she shall not live: no, my heart is turned to
As if he were forgot; and, princes all,
And ere thou bid good night, to quit their griefs,
O, let me teach thee! for my father's sake,
They fight, and CLIFFORD falls
You are John Rugby, and you are Jack Rugby. Come,
I made no spare, sir.
As clears her from all blame.
Thou wondrous man.
Like the base Indian, threw a pearl away
I shall as famous be by this exploit
the duke we talk of were returned again: the
Of Birnam rise, and our high-placed Macbeth
their adversaries. Have you an army ready, say you?
Exit Provost
This will I carry to Rome.
I thank you, good my lord; and thank you all.
when they are known. Call your executioner, and off
How dost thou feel thyself now?
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, with her hair about her ears; RIVERS, and DORSET after her
Should of another therefore be abused!
My sovereign lord, bestow yourself with speed:
hook--what a plague call you him?
Where they're extended; who, like an arch,
Come, follow. Speak not for him.
Thus then, thou most renown'd: Caesar entreats,
pare her nails now. Wherein have you played the
First, good Peter Quince, say what the play treats
Once more, take her hence.
Be cast from possibility of all.
If love be rough with you, be rough with love;
No my lord;
You have some cause, they have not.
Ay, therein Clarence shall not want his part.
that old men have grey beards, that their faces are
Therefore, at your vantage,
Who comes here?
To seek a living in our territory.
Four legs and two voices: a most delicate monster!
And here the abbess shuts the gates on us
Dyed in the dying slaughter of their foes:
[Reads]  'Fare thee well; and God have mercy upon
Hic et ubique? then we'll shift our ground.
the time use thee well: good parts in thee.
I honour him
In honourable fashion.
in.
The moon methinks looks with a watery eye;
Revolts from true birth, stumbling on abuse:
My treasure's in the harbour, take it. O,
Shall do and undo as him pleaseth best.
And full as oft came Edward to my side,
Enter MARK ANTONY, OCTAVIUS CAESAR, OCTAVIA between them, and Attendants
Exit an attendant
An you re us and fa us, you note us.
Judas Maccabaeus clipt is plain Judas.
Why, yet it lives there uncheck'd that Antonio hath
Syenna's brother.
I thank thee for that humour.
And shall our quick blood, spirited with wine,
Good Rapine, stab him; he's a ravisher.
That will I, Pompey.
To BANQUO
'Proud,' and 'I thank you,' and 'I thank you not;'
O most gentle pulpiter! what tedious homily of love
Rides on the posting winds and doth belie
Content; and the argument shall be thy running away.
Am better than thy dear self's better part.
Exit
And live a subject? Nay, forsooth, my friends,
Mine own, I would say; but if mine, then yours,
And, brother York, thy acts in Ireland,
She's my good lady, and will conceive, I hope,
Myself to be a marvellous proper man.
No, first let's reason with him.
be pardoned.
If it prove lawful prize, he's made for ever.
Now they are clapper-clawing one another; I'll go
Graces her subjects, and her thoughts the king
Give me some light: away!
The divine Desdemona.
Are you a-weary of me?
thief this seven year; a' goes up and down like a
Beshrew my heart, but I pity the man.
Because the girl should not survive her shame,
For my authority bears of a credent bulk,
I must go send some better messenger:
If you see vengeance,--
I thank your worship: I shall make my master glad
You owe this strange intelligence? or why
We kill the fowl of season: shall we serve heaven
I never saw
I go, Andronicus: and for thy hand
Sound a sennet. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN  MARGARET, CARDINAL, SUFFOLK, YORK, BUCKINGHAM, SALISBURY and WARWICK to the Parliament
and scatter'd,
No, I will speak as liberal as the north:
Are number'd in the travel of one mile?
Nor none, in my mind, now you give her o'er.
THE SONG
Makes this place Paradise.
Mocking the air with colours idly spread,
Our duty this way lies; for God's sake come.
With Desdemona alone.
To knit in her their best perfections.
But do it when the next thing he espies
to exasperate you, to awake your dormouse valour, to
And draw her home with music.
But, were you wedded, you would bear some sway.
Is this your perfectness? be gone, you rogue!
Having determined of the Volsces and
So hath my lord dared him to single fight.
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
Enter MALCOLM and DONALBAIN
Unless self-charity be sometimes a vice,
Whose daughter, as we hear, the Earl of March
Well, you are a rare parrot-teacher.
In honour'd love.
Wilt thou rest damned? God help thee, shallow man!
Fears, and despairs; and all these for his marriage:
So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
Could turn so much the constitution
I'ld rather than the worth of thrice the sum,
He did; myself did hear it.
Did ever keep your counsels, never wrong'd you;
Gazes on her
Than fall, and bruise to death. Alas, this gentleman
By law of nature and of nations, 'long
I wish you all joy of the worm.
The abject people gazing on thy face,
Was it more precious to me than 'tis now:
been better you had not kissed your three fingers so
Go get thee gone; fetch me an iron crow.
Exeunt Servants with the basket
all one, if he be but one knave. He lives not now
Were all address'd to meet you, gentle lady,
Will you we show our title to the crown?
Or whether that such cowards ought to wear
voices that I may be consul, I have here the
Unchain your spirits now with spelling charms
With these mortals on the ground.
Still live they and for ever may they last!
De sin. Le col, de nick; de menton, de sin.
You had only in your silent judgment tried it,
Thou robb'st me of a moiety: he was my son;
With hounds of Sparta: never did I hear
As if it had lungs and rotten ones.
Have we not been; and therefore met your loves
Enter Chorus
crack the glass of her virginity, and make the rest malleable.
death: her death itself, which could not be her
No notes of sally, for the heavens, sweet brother.
I know my life so even. If your business
Can any face of brass hold longer out?
Wooing poor craftsmen with the craft of smiles
Enter OLIVIA and Priest
Or you shall hear in such a kind from me
Madam, methinks, if you did love him dearly,
Is not this boy revived from death?
Arrogant Winchester, that haughty prelate,
And dispossess her all.
Ay, good youth!
Know you what Caesar means to do with me?
First, I ask thee what they have done; thirdly, I
I kiss his dirty shoe, and from heart-string
Therefore let our proportions for these wars
the sensible Benedick's head?
What letter is this same? What's here? 'To Silvia'!
Fair Helena in fancy following me.
James Gurney, wilt thou give us leave awhile?
She would not lose it: her attendants are
I'll tell thee as we pass; but this I pray,
How! what does his cashiered worship mutter?
What thou thinkest meet and is most mannerly.
And, I beseech you, hear me, who profess
Sith that the justice of your title to him
flap for a sore eye, thou tassel of a prodigal's
The heavens speed thee in thine enterprise!
Not all thy counsel.
Achilles bids you welcome.
Tush, my good lord, this superficial tale
Have you received no promise of satisfaction at her hands?
Or else she could not have the wit to do this: the
I should your lordship.
But moody and dull melancholy,
That swallow'd so much treasure, and like a glass
Has done no more than other knights have done;
the instruments,
Exit
Romans, do me right:
With that dear blood which it hath fostered;
What hast thou been?
He should not humour me. I will this night,
ACT I
the death of the king's disease.
Or foul felonious thief that fleeced poor passengers,
Have glow'd like plated Mars, now bend, now turn,
My fellow-scholars, and to keep those statutes
Friend, you! pray you, a word: do not you follow
Mine innocency and Saint George to thrive!
The world's a huge thing: it is a great price.
Mean time let this defend my loyalty,
Lucilius' Servant: Many do keep their chambers are not sick:
upon thee!
ANTIPHOLUS
I am his fortune's vassal, and I send him
Come, come; sans compliment, what news abroad?
I am glad of your departure: adieu, good Monsieur
And module of confounded royalty.
I cannot think it. Hark! what noise is this?
Which entered their frail shins: at last I left them
It was much like an argument that fell out last
Enter SALISBURY
So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers;
You were best to tell Antonio what you hear;
Reignier, stand thou as Dauphin in my place:
O, what a fall was there, my countrymen!
God quit you in his mercy! Hear your sentence.
Ay, you are honest men.
Or, if misfortune miss the first career,
I will lay trust upon thee; and thou shalt find a
From whom you claim; invoke his warlike spirit,
Her eyelids, cases to those heavenly jewels
Exeunt POMPEY and ABHORSON
Whom I left cooling of the air with sighs
What humble suit attends thy answer there:
This unhair'd sauciness and boyish troops,
He's a good fellow, I can tell you that;
By that and all the rites of knighthood else,
Ay, my lord.
Now make your choice.
Why didst not tell me sooner? pox of your love letters!
If you hear a child cry in the night, you must call
I fear, too much.
And so farewell until I meet thee next.
there live we as merry as the day is long.
Receive the blood: and when that they are dead,
'Ad Jovem,' that's for you: here, 'Ad Apollinem:'
But that our soft conditions and our hearts
after his desert, and who should 'scape whipping?
the table, let a dozen of them be--as they are. The
But I am constant as the northern star,
Be worthily entertain'd.
One whose hard heart is button'd up with steel;
SCENE II. A bedchamber in the castle: DESDEMONA in bed asleep;
My bosky acres and my unshrubb'd down,
You are right courteous knights.
To Adriana! that is where we dined,
desolate. I see them lay their heads together to
No slander; they steal hearts.
I would they were barbarians--as they are,
'Tis strange to think how much King John hath lost
youth with comeliness plucked all gaze his way, when
Even to falling. Give him no breath, but now
You shall yourself read in the bitter letter
Breathe out invectives 'gainst the officers.
Enter VIOLA, MALVOLIO following
Doubt that the sun doth move;
Bravely, coragio!
There let him sink, and be the seas on him!
with better music.
Brach Merriman, the poor cur is emboss'd;
Enter GOWER, before the temple of DIANA at Ephesus
thee, or in bastinado, or in steel; I will bandy
Which he did thrice refuse: was this ambition?
Bid a sick man in sadness make his will:
Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, SOMERSET, WARWICK, TALBOT, EXETER, the Governor, of Paris, and others
My tongue will tell the anger of my heart,
Though, I confess, much like the character
Seeking the bubble reputation
One sand another
Adieu, poor soul, that takest thy leave of it!
duke to be wise.
But as we stand in fear,--
the brain awe a man from the career of his humour?
And thou no more are prince than she is queen.
Was brow-bound with the oak. His pupil age
I'll force thee yield to my desire.
Cried 'O!' and mounted; found no opposition
Most cruel to herself. What she confess'd
You must hang it first, and draw it afterwards.
Or made gift of it, my father's eye
Send her a story of thy noble acts;
Though I confess, on base and ground enough,
gave me nothing for't. Can you make no use of
they would have hanged him: and I pray God his bad
none of these mad mustachio purple-hued malt-worms;
According to the fool's bolt, sir, and such dulcet diseases.
ACT I
I will not think it.
But certainly a maid.
have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast
Macduff, this noble passion,
You have made shift to run into 't, boots and spurs
Being thereto not compell'd.
Caesar made here; but made not here his brag
Well contented.
Then you shall be his surety. Give him this
Approve their truths by Troilus: when their rhymes,
CYMBELINE and IMOGEN converse apart
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
Tigers, not daughters, what have you perform'd?
You are potently opposed; and with a malice
Puts the wretch that lies in woe
of a true subject, didst counsel and aid them, for
points more than all the lawyers in Bohemia can
How now, spirit! whither wander you?
up thus meanly
Thou know'st that we two went to school together:
Did point you to buy them, along as you pass'd:
What his high hatred would effect wants not
husband at home, my son and my servant spend all at
You did mistake.
That were some love but little policy.
That no dissension hinder government:
What, did these rent lines show some love of thine?
Not easily, I think.
Let not young Mutius, then, that was thy joy
My lord,--
I am gone, sir,
Yet I am richer than my base accusers,
That mould up such a mighty piece as this is,
SCENE V. The same.
the dog all this while sheds not a tear nor speaks a
Worse and worse.
Here tend the savage strangeness he puts on,
It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf
I think you are happy in this second match,
count's serving-man than ever she bestowed upon me;
And take my heart with thee.
Fie, uncle Beaufort! I have heard you preach
We'll see your trinkets here all forthcoming.
This is his uncle's teaching; this is Worcester,
it makes him, and it mars him; it sets
Small things make base men proud: this villain here,
behold. Sweet men, come to him.
Officed with me: we two will walk, my lord,
To hide me from the radiant sun and solace
And do not seek to take your change upon you,
that same cowardly, giant-like ox-beef hath
Gives in your weakness strength unto your foe,
And yet detested life not shrink thereat!
A deed of slander with thy fatal hand
As yet the lamentation of the French
My necessaries are embark'd: farewell:
Seven hundred pounds and possibilities is goot gifts.
And yet we mourn: her monument
Trumpet sounds. Enter certain Citizens upon the walls
Nay, come not near th' old man; keep out, che vor
No more of that.
For mine own part,
Before we will lay down our just-borne arms,
But this eternal blazon must not be
Oxford, how haps it, in this smooth discourse,
I shall inform them.
For I shall never hold that man my friend
The manner of thy vile outrageous crimes,
your purses full of crowns; if you will not, tarry
Aaron, what shall I say unto the empress?
And by his rare example made the coward
Are in the poorest thing superfluous:
The image of his Maker, hope to win by it?
So please you.
For the rain it raineth every day.
Made me acquainted with a weighty cause
I'll bring you to the gates.
Ay, to see meat fill knaves and wine heat fools.
He--to give fear to use and liberty,
strange fowl light upon neighbouring ponds. Your
He flatters you, makes war upon your life.
his eye; talks like a knell, and his hum is a
Are masters to their females, and their lords:
Provoke us hither now to slaughter thee.
Then after fight who shall be king of it?
Which in the eleventh year of the last king's reign
find him not there, seek him i' the other place
pupil age of this present twelve o'clock at midnight.
Who all as hot, turns deadly point to point,
And what have I to give you back, whose worth
As great to me as late; and, supportable
That she shall have; besides an argosy
Thy palm some moment keeps; but now mine eyes,
To wife for Edward: if this news be true,
like those that under hot ardent zeal would set
Confederate in the fact: ay, more there was;
But he'll remember with advantages
And so I would be here, but that I doubt
Or lay these bones in an unworthy urn,
And so am I for Phebe.
And thereby hangs a tale.' When I did hear
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
That I revived, and was an emperor.
See, see the pining malady of France;
Which chance to find us: O, my lord, my lord!
single: your abilities are too infant-like for
Learn how 'tis held; and what they are that must
Here 'tis, most reverend doctor, here it is.
The several parcels of his plate, his treasure,
Why stay we, then?
Take that, and mend the plucking off the other.
I will not slay thee, but I'll drive thee back:
Madam, this is a mere distraction;
That I, thy enemy, due thee withal;
And frame my face to all occasions.
My heart can lend no succor to my head.
That she this day hath shameless thrown on me.
SCENE III. A heath near Forres.
Thy biddings have been done; and every hour,
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
To bed! ay, sweet-heart, and I'll come to thee.
That's a question: how shall we try it?
SCENE II. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
Pyramus, or nothing.
To answer like himself: if Caesar move him,
As good as we?
You sent me deputy for Ireland;
Enter CLARENCE, guarded, and BRAKENBURY
A pound of man's flesh taken from a man
Why dost thou cry 'alas'?
In the corrupted currents of this world
swore he would pay him again when he was able: I
Were we before our armies, and to fight.
Both fill'd and running, ravening first the lamb
I, that I was
A noble shalt thou have, and present pay;
For these, these, tribunes, in the dust I write
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is
Hath my sword therefore broke through London gates,
Nay, wherefore should they, since that I myself
Loud 'larums, neighing steeds, and trumpets' clang?
Art not a poet?
As is the bud bit with an envious worm,
What cause of suspicion! Out pon you! how am I
You'll think it strange if I should marry her.
As I in justice and true right express it.
No, holy father; throw away that thought;
as thou hast done, and then say it was in fight!
Belike you slew great number of his people.
Prithee, say on:
That will be music.
Pray you, sir, how much carnation ribbon may a man
What, ho! my lord!
I have done, i' faith.
The special head of all the land together:
O, for a stone-bow, to hit him in the eye!
Nay, then,
eternity and could put breath into his work, would
which else an easy battery might lay flat, for
I'll trust to your conditions: be whores still;
These lovers cry Oh! oh! they die!
When most the truth; which I receive much better
For such as I am all true lovers are,
In any staining act.
The lunatic, the lover and the poet
imposition, as for the enjoying of thy life, who I
care not who knows so much of my mettle.
Tell Bolingbroke--for yond methinks he stands--
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
Return you thither?
Their points being broken,--
That his soul sicken not.
Say now, whose suit is he arrested at?
[Aside]  Eat it up all, Hortensio, if thou lovest me.
Shall it not grieve thee dearer than thy death,
Virtue and cunning were endowments greater
Gentlemen, importune me no farther,
Lesser his person than an ill report;
As I would wish mine enemy.
Commit it, count.
Their ships are yare; yours, heavy: no disgrace
But, poor old man, thou prunest a rotten tree,
Why then, by God--
With ruffs and cuffs and fardingales and things;
is a 'oman that altogether's acquaintance with
Good Lord, how like the empress' sons they are!
With his face backward. In humane gentleness,
Marry, my child, early next Thursday morn,
Ay, if the fool could find it where it lies,
Show me a mistress that is passing fair,
Where life hath no more interest but to breathe!
'Tis but the shortening of my life one day:
With profits of the mind, study and fast.
Till time lend friends and friends their helpful swords.
The king was weeping-ripe for a good word.
keep it in. I heard you were saucy at my gates,
The humour rises; it is good: humour me the angels.
your grace
We do not act that often jest and laugh;
you call love to be a sect or scion.
But in them nature's copy's not eterne.
The head of Ragozine for Claudio's:
Against their will. But who comes here?
The common file--a plague! tribunes for them!--
Once, sir? there was nothing done to her once.
Enter a Servant
Upon the next encounter yields him ours.
Whither away so fast?
We will, we will.
She hangs about his neck:
Nor cheque my courage for what they can give,
The fineness of the gold and chargeful fashion.
By thee, old Capulet, and Montague,
Sir!
Sweet flower, with flowers thy bridal bed I strew,--
Exeunt
TIMON comes from his cave, behind
SCENE VII. Another part of the field.
Nay, if thou be that princely eagle's bird,
Bars me the right of voluntary choosing:
To kill their gracious father? damned fact!
Exempted be from me the arrogance
And the owner of it blest
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
If you are arm'd to do as sworn to do,
I would he loved his wife: if he were honester
ah, the immortal passado! the punto reverso! the
He stuck them up before the fulsome ewes,
Now, fie upon my false French! By mine honour, in
Therein our letters do not well agree;
Titus, I am come to talk with thee.
and, I think, hath appointed them contrary places;
He parted frowning from me, as if ruin
Forbear, for shame, my lords.
My name is Marina.
To do him wrong or any way impeach
Transport her purposes by word? Belike,
Abound, as thick as thought could make 'em, and
knowledge and accordingly valiant.
Those mothers who, to nousle up their babes,
Exit weeping, followed by BIANCA and others
On purpose shut the doors against his way.
As where's that palace whereinto foul things
Is all our company here?
And these grey locks, the pursuivants of death,
Sir Thomas Lovell, had the cardinal
You'd be so lean, that blasts of January
All that belongs to this.
Ely with Richmond troubles me more near
My honour's at the stake; which to defeat,
For he was great of heart.
He bow'd his nature, never known before
Think, how thou stab'dst me in my prime of youth
London road for fleas: I am stung like a tench.
SCENE IV. The field of battle.
Lies down upon his face
Goes into the pulpit
which laid their guilt upon my guiltless shoulders.
SCENE IV. Athens. A room in MARK ANTONY's house.
The place is dignified by the doer's deed:
I have, thou gallant Trojan, seen thee oft
I'll have a starling shall be taught to speak
have been in love?
a state of evil that they will not admit any good
Be with my hopes abroad. I should be still
Where be the bending peers that flatter'd thee?
Express impatience, lest you stir up mine.
And wild amazement hurries up and down
'Thou liest' unto thee with a voice as free
And till he tell the truth,
Unable to support this lump of clay,
Do in his name religiously demand
There's something in me that reproves my fault;
And so afflict our province. Yet once more
My daughter shall be Henry's, if he please.
To make conditions.
Why have you not proclaim'd Northumberland
The worthy thane of Ross.
Stand aside: the noise they make
Threescore and ten I can remember well:
On the bat's back I do fly
You felt than make't my boast.
He is much changed.
That shall be up at heaven and enter there
And, kinsmen, then we may go pipe for justice.
Prick'd from the lazy finger of a maid;
Your pleasure, sir?
supper to-morrow night in Eastcheap: we may do it
Is yet to name the winner: fare you well.
Trinculo and thyself shall be viceroys. Dost thou
Exit
To him, father.
In braving arms against thy sovereign.
And now excess of it will make me surfeit.
As dearly as my own,--be satisfied.
am in love. I'll tell thee, Aliena, I cannot be out
Yes, by all means; if it be but to scrape the
Bore many gentlemen, myself being one,
Yet I should kill thee with much cherishing.
Sebastian are you?
If so, gaze on, and grovel on thy face,
Will purchase us a good opinion
O wall, full often hast thou heard my moans,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
And leave you hindmost;
As many fresh streams meet in one salt sea;
are.
I went
sound'? What say you, Simon Catling?
Before the king will grant her humble suit.
Heaven keep your honour safe!
And have my learning from some true reports,
Swear, if thou darest.
Though in and of him there be much consisting,
Cunning in music and the mathematics,
Wherein I lived, the greatest prince o' the world,
brother die by the law than my son should be
Not a whit, i' faith; I lack some of thy instinct.
Enter LYSANDER and HERMIA
For matching more for wanton lust than honour,
But since my landing I have understood
Consul! what consul?
To take this offer: but Mark Antony
Will never let come forth.
Have robb'd my strong-knit sinews of their strength,
And private in his chamber pens himself,
conscience: and so I leave you.
Will you permit that I shall stand condemn'd
Corrupting in its own fertility.
And make her bear the penance of her tongue?
Being barber'd ten times o'er, goes to the feast,
Ripe for exploits and mighty enterprises.
Whom I would imitate: consumption catch thee!
some strange thing toward, Edmund; pray you, be careful.
Beg that thou mayst have leave to hang thyself:
My work hath yet not warm'd me: fare you well:
nightingale.
My lord, your promise for the earldom,--
SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.
Either of condemnation or approof;
Dost thou hear me, old friend; can you play the
Though others have the arm, show us the sleeve;
To brag unto them, thus I did, and thus;
For poor'st diminutives, for doits; and let
Go you the next way with your findings. I'll go see
And here is my speech. Stand aside, nobility.
I am a soldier, and unapt to weep,
I had forgot: 'tis so concluded on.
Have I commandment on the pulse of life?
For nature doth abhor to make his bed
Come hither, Mariana.
Heaven forgive our sins
This is he, my master said,
O, the devil take such cozeners! God forgive me!
A frank one.
And what they may incense him to, being apt
That art to me as secret and as dear
A woman impudent and mannish grown
his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner.
As if it felt with Scotland and yell'd out
What shall we do, Enobarbus?
being once gone.
Whose hearts have left their bodies here in England
No,'tis his kind of speech: he did not mock us.
Or I'll unpeople Egypt.
made the night light with drinking.
If Venus or her son, as thou dost know,
His arched brows, his hawking eye, his curls,
Like graves i' the holy churchyard.
Slander myself as false to Edward's bed;
To which I thus subscribe: Sir Valentine,
With his own single hand he'ld take us in
A little riper and more lusty red
direct them the way I am going, but such as wink and
surgere,' thou know'st,--
Stamps
By God, he shall not have a Scot of them;
yellow stockings, and wished to see thee ever
Ah, no more of that, Hal, an thou lovest me!
By my life, this is my lady's hand these be her
That's news indeed.
True.
This closing with him fits his lunacy
Ye shall have a hempen caudle, then, and the help of hatchet.
And I like Helen, till the Fates me kill.
Distracted clouds give way; so stand thou forth;
Open your gates and gives the victors way.
Will he endure your sight as yet, I fear:
Have wrought the easy-melting king like wax.
Such barren pleasures, rude society,
'Tis now near night.
It is no matter, now I have't again.
Stand, ho! Speak the word along.
Marry, sir, the pittie-ward, the park-ward, every
thy friend. Come, thou canst not hide it.
All faults I make, when I shall come to know them,
I have left asleep; and for the rest o' the fleet
her wax must melt.
The constable desires thee thou wilt mind
Fled this way, sir. When by no means he could--
Gentlemen both, we will not wake your patience.
Go, tell the prince: run to the Capulets:
Each man's like mine; you have shown all Hectors.
If Time be in debt and theft, and a sergeant in the way,
Supposing it a thing impossible,
No, sir; but hear I do that he hath two,
And can do nought but wail her darling's loss,
We hold our time too precious to be spent
I deserve it. How now! whither bear you this?
The last that e'er I took her at court,
As black as Vulcan in the smoke of war:
know how I speed; and the conclusion shall be
Fly, to revenge my death when I am dead:
To hate young Valentine and love my friend.
I'll lean upon one crutch and fight with t'other,
That you are well restored, my lord, I'm glad:
I have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins,
And smote him, thus.
signify this to his doctor; for, for me to put him
you have found him than he was when you sought him:
Of this new marriage with the Lady Grey?
Unless thou couldst put on some other shape,
Exeunt
They had such courage and audacity?
When devils will the blackest sins put on,
Have hent the gates, and very near upon
My lord, here comes the rascal I spoke of; here with
Without me? they cannot.
Enter QUEEN and Ladies
So madly hot that no discourse of reason,
Or else return no more into my sight.
you'll sweat for't.
wrote to Pompey; upon his own appeal, seizes him: so
A thousand souls to death and deadly night.
If they do speak our language, 'tis our will:
Lies down and sleeps
Rescue those breathing lives to die in beds,
him.
Sound trumpets! let our bloody colours wave!
I'd not have given a doit. Hark, how they joy!
within the term of three years, he shall endure such
To swear, swears only not to be forsworn;
My lord, when last I went to visit her,
My hand shall go.
ANTIPHOLUS
Make your best use of this: I have perform'd
And all be turn'd to barnacles, or to apes
thy services by leaving me now: the need I have of
What is it she does now? Look, how she rubs her hands.
The collars of the moonshine's watery beams,
Come, come, in wooing sorrow let's be brief,
Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach;
my brother; whose loss of his most precious queen
Excellent wretch! Perdition catch my soul,
France, hast thou yet more blood to cast away?
Even so; my tale is told.
Doubt not that, if money and the season can yield
It is impossible that ever Rome
Now cheer each other in each other's love
Since she is living, let the time run on
'Zounds, he dies: I had forgot the reward.
Must be digested, give a favour from you
What's the matter?
He never did encounter with Glendower:
Sir, I do depend upon the lord.
Pray, hear me.
Would now be glad of bread, and beg for it:
In Parthia did I take thee prisoner;
To BARDOLPH
You must bear with me:
Exit
Be comforted, good madam: the great rage,
Hie you, Messala,
Your roof were not sufficient to contain't.
A madman's mercy bade thee run away.
You're an odd man; give even or give none.
Would suffer him to spend his youth at home,
If this be not a dream I see and hear.
Madam, he hath not slept tonight; commanded
Of the queen's speed, is gone.
Shall still be doubled on her: truth shall nurse her,
Lady, amen.
will be with thee again.
In Cressid's love: thou answer'st 'she is fair;'
The one in motley here,
Humphrey of Buckingham, I accept thy greeting.
Make haste: who has the note of them?
been drowned, but that the shore was shelvy and
As any comer I have look'd on yet
Bind the offender,
If the living be enemy to the grief, the excess
sun looking with a southward eye upon him, where he
take dust, like Mistress Mall's picture? why dost
We must return to the court of guard: the night
us, ha, ha?
And this weak and idle theme,
His country's peace.
SCENE III. A room in Polonius' house.
Alas, poor caitiff!
He holds her by the hand, silent
Since then hath made between them. Unto her
And leave those woes alone which I alone
drab I purchased this caparison, and my revenue is
Pointing to the nurse
Cease, cease these jars and rest your minds in peace:
There is five in the first show.
During his power, go sleep.
Alas! dear love, I cannot lack thee two hours.
Or banished fair England's territories,
Put forth their sons to seek preferment out:
A single thing, as I am now, that wonders
For selfsame wind that I should speak withal
Even here I will put off my hope and keep it
What, thou meanest an officer?
dislike; so is the will of a living daughter curbed
But by contempt of nature.
God be wi' you, sir.
and oblique memorial of cuckolds; a thrifty
The gods defend him from so great a shame!
I'll bring you to him.
A privilege never to see me more.
Thy father was, as thou art, Duke of York;
To closeness and the bettering of my mind
That I advise your shunning.
All my fond love thus do I blow to heaven.
I'll not be there.
By flatterers; and what they will inform,
Stand by my side, you whom the gods have made
And when I have the bloody Hector found,
Thou fell'st into my fury, for one death
Pray you, arise,
Doll Tearsheet she by name, and her espouse:
But kiss; one kiss! Rubies unparagon'd,
How comes it now, my husband, O, how comes it,
This is close dealing. Well, I will be there.
And I, of whom his eyes had seen the proof
mouth; this will shake your shaking, I can tell you,
By urging me to fury: O, be gone!
Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractised;
Re-enter a Servant, with boxes, napkins, and fire
And in the vapour of my glory smother'd.
To give my hand opposed against my heart
To blush and beautify the cheek again.
That was and is the question of these wars.
Is't lawful, pray you,
And bid the owners quench them with their tears.
It is the devil.
humble-mouth'd;
Seemeth their conference; their conceits have wings
By cruel cruel thee quite overthrown!
Your suit's unprofitable; stand up, I say.
The king reposeth all his confidence in thee.
To lie in cold obstruction and to rot;
Which every noble Roman bears of you.
Kate, the elder I wax, the better I shall appear:
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
There is no seeming mercy in the king.
Many good nights, my lord: I rest your servant.
Which the commission of thy years and art
And by other warranted testimony.
keep so good a house. Many a time and often I ha'
Makes the night morning, and the noon-tide night.
And from the pride of Gallia rescued thee.
justices could not take up a quarrel, but when the
And in the Capitol and senate's right,
The bitter clamour of two eager tongues,
I will not leave him now till Cassio
When you sally upon him, speak what terrible
An if it please thee! why, assure thee, Lucius,
Which flashes now a phoenix. Get you gone.
That will confess perfection so could err
Exit AEdile
out the villain Gloucester.
Marry, is't.
And other of his conquer'd kingdoms, I
hath not my gait in it the measure of the court?
not me: therefore I am no sheep.
Do a fair message to his kingly ears?
Is father, mother, Tybalt, Romeo, Juliet,
SCENE IV. The same. Pandarus' house.
'Keep it, my Pericles; it hath been a shield
To murder, murder our solemnity?
Had his great name profaned with their scorns
he cannot by the duello avoid it: but he has
This is the man; do thy office.
Or like a cunning instrument cased up,
And I will pamper it with lamentations.
Affected eminence, wealth, sovereignty;
Deals with our cardinal; and, as I trow,--
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus
To die in ruffian battle? Even at this sight
Enter MARCIUS
to sound Falstaff. If I find her honest, I lose not
stone; I strike it, and it hurts my hand. O, the
Bate, I beseech you, widow Dido.
Another yet! A seventh! I'll see no more:
Exit
Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune;
A notable lubber, as thou reportest him to be.
Not in my husband's nose.
Certain, men should be what they seem.
I did.
So longest way shall have the longest moans.
firm faith.
The root of his opinion, which is rotten
beware instinct; the lion will not touch the true
To say if that the bastard boys of York
Will close the eye of anguish.
Enter the PRINCE and WESTMORELAND
Exeunt Ladies
With many more confederates, are in arms.
Alarum afar off, as at a sea-fight
I shall have it.
And then away to Venice to your friend;
Good my mother, peace!
I do but partly know, sir: it is music in parts.
Look in the calendar, and bring me word.
Music
Came they not by you?
And, with a feeble gripe, says 'Dear my lord,
Have sunk the sea within the earth or ere
What more remains?
Who shall not be more dear to my respect
To make yourself a son out of my blood.
valiant flea that dare eat his breakfast on the lip of a lion.
One drunkard loves another of the name.
name of a Christian.
What say'st thou?
Men are not still the same: 'twas time and griefs
As thoughts of things divine, are intermix'd
It rested in your grace
To sit with us once more, with better heed
To stop affliction, let him take his haste,
The noble Duke of Bedford late deceased,
'Tis well, 'tis well; no more:
So I hope;
And that small model of the barren earth
learned from my entertainment. What I am, and what I
Meet we the medicine of the sickly weal,
Make me but like my thoughts, and I shall prove
Being holiday, the beggar's shop is shut.
Well, I'll find friends to wear my bleeding roses,
Call in more women. When I am dead, good wench,
'The riot of the tipsy Bacchanals,
Or else a wit by folly vanquished.
That what he will he does, and does so much
Sit laurel victory! and smooth success
Why do the emperor's trumpets flourish thus?
For soldiers' stomachs always serve them well.
Think that thy babes were fairer than they were,
vision. I have had a dream, past the wit of man to
And more such days as these to us befall!
Go, go, good countrymen, and, for this fault,
You must not so far prefer her 'fore ours of Italy.
Here, Peter Quince.
Yet say I, he is in love.
Where that his lords desire him to have borne
The better shall my purpose work on him.
You're deceived, my lord: this is Monsieur
By watching, weeping, tendance, kissing, to
And this fell tempest shall not cease to rage
By which he did ascend. So Caesar may.
Why, then to thee, thou silver treasure-house;
O, 'tis a foul thing when a cur cannot keep himself
This Tarsus, o'er which I have the government,
What, drunk with choler? stay and pause awhile:
Speak ere thou diest.
Run, boy, run, run, and seek him out.
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
So I will, my liege, as I live.
If this poor trash of Venice, whom I trash
white, and cry 'mum;' she cries 'budget;' and by
Enforced thee! art thou king, and wilt be forced?
But when they heard he was thine enemy,
My pity hath been balm to heal their wounds,
sleep. Look, who comes here.
than little wit from them that they have! which
But, howsoever, strange and admirable.
And rape, I fear, was root of thine annoy.
When steel grows soft as the parasite's silk,
But I bethink me what a weary way
Weep our sad bosoms empty.
My honours to you, upon his good returns.
neighbours, is grown into an unspeakable estate.
When, for his hand, he had his two sons' heads;
Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
She bears a duke's revenues on her back,
occasion; that sall I, marry.
victuals, and would fain have meat. O, be not like
Their drenched natures lie as in a death,
Is not this he?
And will he steal out of his wholesome bed,
Disdaining fortune, with his brandish'd steel,
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
wont, when you laughed, to crow like a cock; when you
Up to the elbows, and besmear our swords:
Nay, certainly to-night;
Straining upon the start. The game's afoot:
Well, give them their charge, neighbour Dogberry.
Does not approve me further, who was wont
And never rise until my tears and prayers
Hath widow'd and unchilded many a one,
I know thee well: a serviceable villain;
Turn you the key, and know his business of him;
I mean that her beauty is exquisite, but her favour infinite.
His life was gentle, and the elements
There's strange news come, sir.
Follow me.
Humanity must perforce prey on itself,
As partly I find it is, that your fair daughter,
And set a precious crown upon thy head,
And all of them that thus dishonour her.
O, know you yet, he doth it publicly,
And blow them at the moon: O, 'tis most sweet,
'Tis certain, then, for Cyprus.
man so bad as is thyself.
These late eclipses in the sun and moon portend
My lord, I had forgot to tell your lordship,
VARRO and CLAUDIUS lie down
Thou wast their nurse; they took thee for
Enter Provost and POMPEY
My wife is nothing; nor nothing have these nothings,
Mark our contract.
To DUMAIN
say ay and no to these particulars is more than to
Friends both, go join you with some further aid:
To be relinquish'd of the artists,--
So foolish sorrow bids your stones farewell.
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Now, whence come you?
His tyranny for trifles; his own bastardy,
Exit
Infused itself in thee; for thy desires
Friends, that have been thus forward in my right,
You clasp young Cupid's tables. Good news, gods!
You must not, sir, mistake my niece. There is a
Such valour in the bearing, what make we
What mean you, sir?
is not this my jerkin? Now is the jerkin under
Your lady being so easy.
And then the end is known. Come, ho! away!
My drown'd queen's name, as in the rest you said
What is he, Biondello?
I am: what must we understand by this?
We shill employ thee in a worthier place.
Had graced the tender temples of my child,
Wearying thy hearer in thy mistress' praise,
The burning torch in yonder turret stands.
Thou shouldst have said 'Good porter, turn the key,'
What valour were it, when a cur doth grin,
The other rotted with delicious feed.
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Yea, is it so?
As I can bid thee speak.
GREMIO discovered. Enter behind BIONDELLO, LUCENTIO, and BIANCA
Of late with passions of some difference,
And, coasting homeward, came to Ephesus;
Sweetly in force unto her fair life's end.
Her richest lockram 'bout her reechy neck,
Yield stinging nettles to mine enemies;
If to have done the thing you gave in charge
Now to the bottom dost thou search my wound:
I cannot read them now.
Happy return be to your royal grace!
Bernardo?
Mount thou my horse, and hide thy spurs in him,
The duty that I owe unto your majesty
Do it in hope of fair advantages:
This sway of motion, this Commodity,
Pardon me, sir, this jewel did she wear;
Of what is to be dreaded.
To-morrow morning call some knight to arms
'T has done, upon the premises, but justice:
But what said Lady Bona to my marriage?
envious a scholar, a statesman and a soldier.
court distant from this shore?
O thou caitiff! O thou varlet! O thou wicked
Trinculo, run into no further danger:
And here will Talbot mount, or make his grave.
Come, York and Richard, Warwick and the rest;
From their abominable and beastly touches
How now! what is't?
Revenge the jeering and disdain'd contempt
You woo'd me the false way.
To think upon you.
Nay, faith, I'll see the church o' your back; and
Why, I'll tell you: this is called Pentapolis, and
A good and virtuous nature may recoil
I give you; and gold confound you howsoe'er! Amen.
Let us be led within thy bosom, Richard,
To thee the book even of my secret soul:
Witches vanish
How 'scapes he agues, in the devil's name?
'Tis best thou diest quickly.
his true likeness.
As certain as I know the sun is fire:
Ay, for the state, not for Antonio.
Yes, truly is he, and condemn'd upon't.
As on a mountain top the cedar shows
if a man will be beaten with brains, a' shall wear
Have taken treasure from her lips--
Liker in feature to his father Geffrey
Angliae, et Haeres Franciae.
thousand years I could stay no longer. Wherefore,
Madam, in Rome;
Bias and thwart, not answering the aim,
Go call him hither.
With all my heart.
Sirrah, were I at home,
What a damned Epicurean rascal is this! My heart is
Hark! our drums
Dumain transform'd! four woodcocks in a dish!
You give away this hand, and that is mine;
Or dare to bring thy force so near the court.
and left nothing i' the middle: here comes one o'
He dies to me again when talk'd of: sure,
resolved to die.
Not for their own demerits, but for mine,
That might your nature, honour and exception
And not protector, of the king or realm.
nay, an thou canst not smile as the wind sits,
Did instigate the bedlam brain-sick duchess
No, not an oath: if not the face of men,
All goodness
What is the figure? what is the figure?
Sin, death, and hell have set their marks on him,
What doth gravity out of his bed at midnight? Shall
I am glad I was up so late; for that's the reason I
Mine ears, that heard her flattery; nor my heart,
Go thou to sanctuary, and good thoughts possess thee!
Ay, here they be that dare and will disturb thee:
Sir Thomas Gargrave, hast thou any life?
He stretch'd him, and, with one hand on his dagger,
Else I should tell him,--well, i' faith I should,
Fire answers fire, and through their paly flames
Be that the uttermost, and fail not then.
Throws him his purse
Or by some habit that too much o'er-leavens
I'll see if I can get my husband's ring,
As if that whatsoever god who leads him
I say gud-day, Captain Fluellen.
another's dotage, and no such matter: that's the
Where, like Arion on the dolphin's back,
The soldier's virtue, rather makes choice of loss,
With which he yoketh your rebellious necks,
Enter CATESBY
If you go forward; therefore yield, or die.
If I thou protector of this damned strumpet--
Now, justice on the doers!
All too soon I shall,
He would not seem to know me.
Hoists sails and flies.
Before you find it other. All the regions
Than with an old one dying.
All-worthy villain!
you, pardon me; he's a justice of peace in his
Presently?
dog--Oh! the dog is me, and I am myself; ay, so,
How easy is a bush supposed a bear!
Enter ORLANDO and ADAM
That summons thee to heaven or to hell.
Uncertain favour!
The Grecian dames are sunburnt and not worth
How now! what news?
Dost thou love pictures? we will fetch thee straight
Come, let's away. When, Caius, Rome is thine,
Enter CONSTANCE
You do the king my father too much wrong
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
soldiers, three hundred and odd pounds. I press me
This is clean kam.
Thurio, give back, or else embrace thy death;
Master constable, you go not the way to examine:
Ah, wretched man! would I had died a maid
People of Rome, and people's tribunes here,
Enter TIMON, in a rage, FLAMINIUS following
king best service in the end: he keeps them, like
Roderigo! no:--yes, sure: O heaven! Roderigo.
More strange than true: I never may believe
Take heed, be wary how you place your words;
As with a woman. Come, you'll play with me, sir?
picture; and what I saw, to my good use I
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
I'll make thee an example.
The children thus disposed, my wife and I,
mortal wretch,
Rosalind of a better leer than you.
As woman's love.
Yes, yes; he teaches boys the hornbook. What is a,
Was this King Priam's joy?
God on our side, doubt not of victory.
Sorrow concealed, like an oven stopp'd,
But what is the sport, monsieur, that the ladies
You grave but reckless senators, have you thus
The glove which I have given him for a favour
Hence, therefore, every leader to his charge;
Hath he a sister?
And here detain'd by her usurping uncle,
And time it is, when raging war is done,
Lives, sir.
Master, is this Mistress Satan?
Now swallow down that lie. For Gloucester's death,
Whose sudden sight hath thrall'd my wounded eye.
My staff? here, noble Henry, is my staff:
Exit
The virtuous Cranmer.
I charm you, by my once-commended beauty,
Is my master and his wife coming, Grumio?
the fool is the whetstone of the wits. How now,
Besides I say and will in battle prove,
Now know you, Casca, I have moved already
Avoid, and leave him.
These words, like daggers, enter in mine ears;
What's past and what's to come is strew'd with husks
Three talents on the present; in future, all.
E'en so thou outrunnest grace. Fool, I will go with
To marry Paris: Wednesday is to-morrow:
But slow in speech, yet sweet as spring-time flowers:
You told how Diomed, a whole week by days,
Hast sold me to this novice; and my heart
Turn your displeasure that way: for our faults
With bills on their necks, 'Be it known unto all men
Things bad begun make strong themselves by ill.
Nor longer stay in your curst company.
And throw the rider headlong in the lists,
else; nor that well neither.
pack, a conspiracy against me: now shall the devil
female,--which in the common is woman; which
O, banish me, my lord, but kill me not!
Enter FLUELLEN and GOWER
Your nose smells 'no' in this, most tender-smelling knight.
And twangling Jack; with twenty such vile terms,
Without suspicion.
it that always makes a good voyage of nothing. Farewell.
Look you, if you take the matter otherwise than is
The cardinal!
He's of the colour of the nutmeg.
No seconds? all myself?
A vestal livery will I take me to,
I have congied with the duke, done my adieu with his
You have of these pedlars, that have more in them
But shall you on your knowledge find this way?
The pretty wretch left crying and said 'Ay.'
This same shall go.
Or else thou art suborn'd against his honour
Think you, my lord, this little prating York
cats and dogs,
I cannot be much lower than my knees.
I'll answer to my lust: and know you, lord,
He'ld lay the future open. You good gods,
So hence! Be thou the trumpet of our wrath
My duty then shall pay me for my pains:
Makes me with heavy nothing faint and shrink.
Pray, what is't?
Intends you for his swift ambassador,
That vow a long and weary pilgrimage;
the letter?
Here comes the Briton: let him be so entertained
Now to 'scape the serpent's tongue,
And have my thanks for all.
How my achievements mock me!
Stay, the king hath thrown his warder down.
She is i' the rear our birth.
I would have him nine years a-killing.
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue, sword;
I'll give you something else.
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
A proper squire! And who, and who? which way looks
Of mine own eyes.
Except to steal your thoughts, my gentle queen.
I know't, my sister's: this approves her letter,
Which never could I so convey,
She puts her tongue a little in her heart,
would suffer her poor knight surprised, without
I' the shipman's card.
Let it not gall your patience, good Iago,
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
Heaven knows how dearly. My next poor petition
handkerchers: which makes much against my manhood,
It almost turns my dangerous nature mild.
The king himself is rode to view their battle.
My lord!
Rescue thy mistress, if thou be a man.
Yet one word more: grief boundeth where it falls,
Be not thyself; for how art thou a king
That heaven hath infused them with these spirits,
Can you do it?
Nothing but bonfires: the oracle is fulfilled; the
not, she has the mends in her own hands.
And yet we should, for perpetuity,
Mi perdonato, gentle master mine,
To me, your friend, than any.
SCENE II. A hall in the castle.
Which is the Queen of Egypt?
Enter COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, and other Senators; JUNIUS BRUTUS and SICINIUS VELUTUS
Add proof unto mine armour with thy prayers;
I'll be no longer guilty of this sin; this sanguine
Thou wilt fall backward when thou hast more wit;
Neither is our profession any trade; it's no
Hast thou gold yet? I'll take the gold thou
Out three years old.
To punish them; although not done, but meant.
Thy half o' the kingdom hast thou not forgot,
Enter HASTINGS
She sweeps it through the court with troops of ladies,
Once did I get him bound and sent him home,
I am your butt, and I abide your shot.
And the rank poison of the old will die.
I have seen him do. How he solicits heaven,
His highness comes post from Marseilles, of as able
Take heed you fall not.
If that my cousin king be King of England,
And this, indeed, O world, the heart of thee.
A weak bond holds you: I'll not trust your word.
When he, conjunct and flattering his displeasure,
Have brought about the annual reckoning.
my hair; wore gloves in my cap; served the lust of
of 'we three'?
So fearful were they of infection.
And, in thy reverence and thy chair-days, thus
Nay, I'll conjure too.
The heavens have bless'd you with a goodly son,
Stand forth, Lysander: and my gracious duke,
And swim to yonder point?' Upon the word,
I dare not drink yet, madam; by and by.
There is not only disgrace and dishonour in that,
Of that integrity which should become't,
That mint.
O sir, such a life, with such a wife, were strange!
Yea, forsooth, an your mistership be emperial.
God, the best maker of all marriages,
For this amongst the rest, was I ordain'd.
[To TRANIO]  Signior Lucentio, this is the
unmannerly.
His filth within being cast, he would appear
Let us deal justly.
My name is Roderigo.
my reputation! I have lost the immortal part of
That creep into the dreaming bridegroom's ear,
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
You that thus far have come to pity me,
I never saw an action of such shame;
Come, come, you froward and unable worms!
And many such-like liberties of sin:
you're ready:
The battle done, and they within our power,
A thousand pounds by the year: thus runs the bill.
Spring come to you at the farthest
obscenely and courageously. Take pains; be perfect: adieu.
It is reported that he has taken their greatest
Then, England's ground, farewell; sweet soil, adieu;
Trust not those cunning waters of his eyes,
Upon what sickness?
What wood is this before us?
And what God will, that let your king perform;
O, rhymes are guards on wanton Cupid's hose:
Lavinia, though you left me like a churl,
none. I shall be with her, I may tell you, by her
I know the man. What is the sum he owes?
Time was, I did him a desired office,
Out, fool!
And ere I take this charm from off her sight,
Then tell us, shall your city call us lord,
Comfort, my liege; remember who you are.
Let's yet be fellows; let's shake our heads, and say,
And I'll direct thee how thou shalt escape
Wouldst thou not spit at me and spurn at me
But that two villains, whose false oaths prevail'd
Catch sung
I grant, sweet love, that I did love a lady;
That they do hold their course toward Tewksbury:
When it shines seldom in admiring eyes;
But to look back in frown: stand, stand.'
In Britain where was he
Woo contrary, deceived by these removes.
Now, signior, where's the count? did you see him?
But how is it that great Plantagenet
But by the robbing of the banish'd duke.
Jacks; and if I cannot, I'll find those that shall.
That now they are at fall, want treasure, cannot
Our interpreter does it well.
O Troilus! Troilus!
Captain Jamy is a marvellous falourous gentleman,
Degenerate bastard! I'll not trouble thee.
Nay, good Lysander; for my sake, my dear,
Then let your will attend on their accords.
Our soldiers', like the night-owl's lazy flight,
broken out within this hour that ballad-makers
it.
Upon the north side of this pleasant chase;
Re-enter BELARIUS, with the body of CLOTEN
The viol once more: how thou stirr'st, thou block!
I saw the handkerchief.
I conjure only but to raise up him.
But trust me, gentleman, I'll prove more true
Whoe'er he be that in this foul proceeding
Doth grossly close it in, we cannot hear it.
Praise him that got thee, she that gave thee suck:
On the complaint o' the tenants: take good heed
I'll pay your bounties; till then rest your debtor.
The third o' the world is yours; which with a snaffle
whole sex withal.
For so he calls me: now I feed myself
And fearfully did menace me with death,
Had not concluded all. He wakes; speak to him.
And that this body, consecrate to thee,
The pleasant'st angling is to see the fish
But where to-morrow?  Well, all's one for that.
Even so thy breast encloseth my poor heart;
And this brave fellow too, we are the grains:
To DUKE SENIOR
Each man apart, all single and alone,
Ay, my lord.
As therefore kept to do so.
It is Othello's pleasure, our noble and valiant
Reads
fond; but it is not in my virtue to amend it.
Did Michael Cassio, when you woo'd my lady,
And this our life exempt from public haunt
That will not trust thee but for profit's sake?
pretty one; a very pretty one: sure, some 'scape:
duck, thou art made like a goose.
The servant of this armourer, my lords.
If you will mark it.
If we and Caius Marcius chance to meet,
Away, away! for he is coming hither.
Which I have darted at thee, hurt thee not,
the fire too. Come, talk not of her: you shall find
Do but behold the tears that swell in me,
An't shall please your majesty, I never said nor
The shame which here it suffers.
Enter ROSS
Will greet us here anon, my gentle Varrius.
So, now bring them in, for I'll play the cook,
Enter a Messenger
He doth fill fields with harness in the realm,
Hear his speech, but say thou nought.
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
osiers bow'd.
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
Our true intent is. All for your delight
The Volscians are dislodged, and Marcius gone:
Tell me, my friend, art thou the man that slew him?
I love him not nor hate him not; and yet
Though now this grained face of mine be hid
Enter LUCENTIO and his man TRANIO
If Tamora entreat him, then he will:
Makes all these bodements.
Ask me what question thou canst possible,
And drink carouses to the next day's fate,
Thy penitent reform'd: but we have been
Had gone to gaze on Cleopatra too,
Come, come, they are almost here. How many stand
Hath this brave manage, this career, been run.
I thought upon one pair of English legs
With those that have offended: like a shepherd,
With letters of commission from the king.
my mistress: I think I saw your wisdom there.
And take a lodging fit to entertain
'zounds, I would make him eat a piece of my sword.
as any is between this and his head; he hath fought
The valiant Duke of Bedford. Come, my lord,
Tell me of corn!
wherewith,--
A noise of targets, or to see a fellow
If they were his assistants, yea or no;
In what you please: I'll do what I can.
Philomel, with melody
But Romeo's name speaks heavenly eloquence.
Oh, if you love my brother, hate not me;
Our states are forfeit: seek not to undo us.
For I shall never speak to thee again.
to consign to.
Than I do now: with thought of such affections,
detect the lazy foot of Time as well as a clock.
Therefore let's have fresh ones, whate'er we pay for
Where is Duncan's body?
Since once he play'd a farmer's eldest son:
Go hence, to have more talk of these sad things;
Exit
The throng that follows Caesar at the heels,
fulfilled: she lifted the princess from the earth,
Nor let the rain of heaven wet this place,
Sir,--
Threaten his bloody stage: by the clock, 'tis day,
Then send for one presently.
And is this all?
My lord,
Taking advantage of our misery,
Pray you, sir, whose daughter?
There vanish'd in the sunbeams: which portends--
My chaplain to no creature living, but
Wherefore should you do this?
Nothing.
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
Exit MALVOLIO
Thy burden at the sea, and call'd Marina
Within my age. But reason with the fellow,
'Tis that he sent me of the duke's return:
I am, sir,
I thank you, sir.
Why, so I do. Good Portia, go to bed.
Sir, I lack advancement.
Nay, sure, I think she holds them prisoners still.
Where every horse bears his commanding rein,
A twelvemonth longer, let me entreat you to
But I much marvel that your lordship, having
upward, and all was as cold as any stone.
By diligent discovery; but your haste
'Faith, by no means; she has so strictly tied
With what else needful your good grace shall think
Sir Thomas Gargrave, and Sir William Glansdale,
bitter fool and a sweet fool?
Now is your time: speak loud and kneel before him.
What is the matter?
With half the bulk o' the world play'd as I pleased,
He is not, nor we have not heard from him.
One side will mock another; the other too.
As holy oil, Edward Confessor's crown,
I shall, King Harry. And so fare thee well:
And here is not a creature but myself,
Therefore hear you, mistress; either frame
To offend, and judge, are distinct offices
Exeunt
Should be 'Remember mine.'
Forget to pity him, lest thy pity prove
be sad: I fear you have sold your own lands to see
Ha! a drum ? Thou'rt quick,
It is not honesty in me to speak
KING RICHARD III starts out of his dream
Or one that, at a triumph having vow'd
That we find out the cause of this effect,
For Paris, was it? speak.
Now will I begin your moral, and do you follow with
After some respite will return to Calais;
me like a dog; and told me I had white hairs in my
I'll perfect him withal, and he shall bring you
Be eloquent in my behalf to her.
And all is done. Then let the trumpets sound
Beseech you, sir, to spare me, till I may
Hence, old goat!
Do you confess so much? Give me your hand.
She eat no meat to-day, nor none shall eat;
Sport royal, I warrant you: I know my physic will
for my father hated his father dearly; yet I hate
And cursed be he that will not second it.
An he had been cannibally given, he might have
Though less than yours in past, must o'ertop yours;
Tam lentus audis scelera? tam lentus vides?
Here is a hand to hold a sceptre up
Of kings, of beggars, old men, young men, maids,
The strangeness of your story put
for powder; they'll fill a pit as well as better:
Would it not grieve an able man to leave
O heinous, strong and bold conspiracy!
O traitors, villains!
I charge thee use her well, even for my charge;
The night is dark; light and spirits will become it
Troilus will not come far behind him: let them take
O, who can give an oath? where is a book?
picture. Alas the day, how loath you are to offend
Dear for her reputation through the world,
How they at Pomfret bloodily were butcher'd,
That seeks not to find that her search implies,
I understand the business, I hear it: to have an
And paved with gold, the emperor thus desired,
Exit
To hunt the panther and the hart with me,
The hart ungalled play;
Belonging to whom?
forbear both.
If we offend, it is with our good will.
tongue speaks.
Reprove my allegation, if you can;
A seat for baseness.
And by the bright track of his fiery car,
Nor spell nor charm,
This is kind I offer.
Tillyvally. Lady!
stark spoiled with the staggers, begnawn with the
coursers for cousins and gennets for germans.
Denmark, and those that would make mows at him while
ISABELLA is carried off guarded; and MARIANA comes forward
him, foul collier!
Be ready, gods, with all your thunderbolts;
Fie, fie, my brother!
A fox to be the shepherd of thy lambs.
ungenitured agent will unpeople the province with
Elected him our absence to supply,
When evils are most free? O, then by day
When living light should kiss it?
I'll pour this pestilence into his ear,
An please your majesty, let his neck answer for it,
then look for your reward. I'll be at hand, sir; see
Lends mettle to us all!
Return so much, I have shook my head and wept;
Jack Cade, the Duke of York hath taught you this.
Who art the table wherein all my thoughts
O, sir, you are deceived.
Is pointing still, in cleansing them from tears.
My lord, your valiant kinsman, Faulconbridge,
'Twas pitiful, 'twas wondrous pitiful:
Sent back like Hallowmas or short'st of day.
Tell o'er your woes again by viewing mine:
Pursue him, ho! Go after.
First, mighty sovereign, let me know your mind,
My good lord, have great care
I assure you, Carthage.
And duly waited for my coming forth?
For though he seem with forged quaint conceit
No more evasion:
And prostitute me to the basest groom
To extol what it hath done.
Whom best I love I cross; to make my gift,
Beats down their swords
I told you yesternight: there's a franklin in the
Accept distracted thanks.
And hoist thee up to the shouting plebeians:
I fear 'twill be revenged:
The master-cord on's heart!
And gasping to begin some speech, her eyes
No, Kate? I will tell thee in French; which I am
That's most certain, and with you; next month with us.
We have sworn, my lord, already.
This will I send, and something else more plain,
Enter CAPULET
beseech the virtuous Desdemona to undertake for me:
Alas, a kind of godly jealousy--
His Jewish heart: therefore, I do beseech you,
I would not draw them; I would have my bond.
That Cassio loves her, I do well believe it;
Some touch of your late business: affairs, that walk,
To requite me, by making rich yourself.
You can do better yet; but this is meetly.
For breathing in their faces; beat the ground
thou delay me not the knowledge of his chin.
I heard nothing.
Let us hear, sweet Bottom.
Will we sing, and bless this place.
foresters, gentlemen of the shade, minions of the
there's some boot.
come; methinks his flesh is punished, he shall have
Fair Jessica shall be my torch-beare r.
O, she that might have intercepted thee,
such a case as mine a man may strain courtesy.
The other lords, like lions wanting food,
My lord, my lord, you are a sectary,
Take in your love, and then let me alone.
flatter me that thou dost, notwithstanding the poor
Why then, we'll make exchange; here, take you this.
We are a queen, or long have dream'd so, certain
There is indeed; which they would have your grace
A father to me; and thou hast created
Whose heart I thought I had, for she had mine;
Will you be so good, scauld knave, as eat it?
Some surety for a safe return again,
To my sick soul, as sin's true nature is,
The princess is the better Englishwoman. I' faith,
For my peculiar care. This one thing only
Exit
true purchasing.
Is that one of the four complexions?
Doctor, your service for this time is ended;
He had so; looking as it were--would I were hanged,
The Tarquin drive, when he was call'd a king.
What tidings can you tell me of my lord?
dear knight?
Exeunt
To grant one boom that I shall ask of you.
And Master Slender's your master?
Nay, but thou shalt stay too: I would my son
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow morning.
What think you of a duchess? have you limbs
That ever kept with men.
Call for our chiefest men of discipline,
to this paltry knight.
Prithee, no more; cease; thou know'st
And live a coward in thine own esteem,
Ten days ago I drown'd these news in tears;
A little I can read.
There is between my will and all offences
What canst thou wish thine enemy to be?
This is all.
No more obey the heavens than our courtiers
Then is the world one.
lest he knock that about yours.
Than for his lineal royalties and to beg
A very gentle beast, of a good conscience.
That spoil'd your summer fields and fruitful vines,
Exeunt
Your lips will feel them the sooner. Shallow again.
Thou smiling while he knit his angry brows:
She calls me proud, and that she could not love me,
Have hither march'd to your endamagement:
My master sues to her, and she hath
Yes, my good lord,
Exit
Of our most gracious mistress.
The rain and wind beat dark December, how,
Thou shalt be lord of it and I'll serve thee.
An uproar, I dare warrant,
Yes, that goodness
Come down, behold no more.
That put Armado's page out of his part!
Behold our human actions, as they do,
A lover may bestride the gossamer
Enter PROSPERO, FERDINAND, and MIRANDA
Whom should we match with Henry, being a king,
while, which is not amiss to cool a man's stomach
I pray you, sir, what is he?
With Cupid's arrow; she hath Dian's wit;
But never once again turn back and fly.
ANTIPHOLUS
But will you woo this wild-cat?
not imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander,
[Within]  What, 's all the doors open here?
My children too?
You have told me too many of him already, sir, if
if the old fantastical duke of dark corners had been
Or shall we cut away our hands, like thine?
And will to-morrow midnight solemnly
Ere I could make thee open thy white hand
Murder her brothers, and then marry her!
That you must lose a husband.
But only slaughter'd by the ireful arm
'Twixt sky and ground. Wilt thou hear more, my lord?
For she is good, hath brought you forth a daughter;
go to, no more; lest it be rather thought you affect
A good traveller is something at the latter end of a
bowler: but, for Alisander,--alas, you see how
Whom our fast-growing scene must find
That stays upon me, whose persuasion is
Sweet lord, you play me false.
Is rank'd with all deserts, all kind of natures,
Longer than I have time to tell his years!
So vanish'd: which foreshow'd our princely eagle,
To make an earthquake! sure, it was the roar
Exit GLENDOWER
Three thousand ducats; well.
Thou dost snore distinctly;
Our yoke and sufferance show us womanish.
Wert thou not my brother, I would not take this hand
It is concluded. Banquo, thy soul's flight,
The goodliest weapons of his armoury
Whether these pearls of praise be his or no;
Where did you find it, then?
Repeal him with the welcome of his mother;
upstairs and downstairs; his eloquence the parcel of
Sir, a Chartreux friar,
Call'd Robin Goodfellow: are not you he
Enter ANGELO
With harsh resounding trumpets' dreadful bray,
Until I know this sure uncertainty,
The king's attorney on the contrary
Convey them with safe conduct. Fare you well.
Since nature cannot choose his origin--
That when she dies with beauty dies her store.
Dies
Is come to lay his weary bones among ye;
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
To twinkle in their spheres till they return.
Re-enter Provost, with BARNARDINE, CLAUDIO muffled, and JULIET
Why art thou old, and want'st experience?
But had he died in the business, madam; how then?
And such a daughter,
The king will labour still to save his life,
sprat you shall find him; which you shall see this
He lives that loves thee better than he could.
Alack, for lesser knowledge! how accursed
Plantagenet.
Since Henry Monmouth first began to reign,
chamber matter of it: if he were twenty Sir John
Guns heard
Which even but now, demanding after you,
O, that I had her here, to tear her limb-meal!
Unarm thee, go, and doubt thou not, brave boy,
War, death, or sickness did lay siege to it,
We tread upon, and never think of it.
shake me up.
By the time I linger here
Enough is shown: a cypress, not a bosom,
Disguised like Muscovites, in shapeless gear;
Thy thoughts with nobleness; that thou mayst prove
son should be a fool; whose skull Jove cram with
I'll be with you again,
You shall try but one fall.
To take her with him to the Isle of Man.
Gallop apace, you fiery-footed steeds,
And with a larger tether may he walk
And the buildings of my fancy: only
But the protractive trials of great Jove
Be it with resolution then to fight.
And, Nevil, this I do assure myself:
I will perform it to enfranchise you.
Or what his death will bring us.
We'll answer it;
Will stand a tip-toe when the day is named,
May through the centre creep and so displease
I have, in this rough work, shaped out a man,
Unveiling
Here's such a coil! come, what says Romeo?
If fortune serve me, I'll requite this kindness.
Or know what ground's made happy by his breath.
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Make up no factious
I cannot tell; expect they are busied about a
That you are thieves profess'd, that you work not
What man is this?
Have brought a countercheque before your gates,
time has yet to come that she was ever respected
O holy friar, O, tell me, holy friar,
My sons, God knows what hath bechanced them:
This was a way to thrive, and he was blest:
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
Came here to make us merry! and thou hast
A very, very--pajock.
DON
I pray you, have in mind where we must meet.
You have a gentle heart. I saw you lately,
I have been long a sleeper; but, I hope,
The duke's in council and your noble self,
questions in his accidence.
As Humphrey, proved by reasons, to my liege.
To tell you once again that at my birth
O night, O night! alack, alack, alack,
First, he commends him to your noble lordship.
More learned than the ears--waving thy head,
Sir, those cold ways,
finger in the fire, and need not.
Ever to conquer, and to have his worth
Enter MONTANO and two Gentlemen
O Publius, is not this a heavy case,
'Tis but the fate of place, and the rough brake
I will, my lord.
He eats nothing but doves, love, and that breeds hot
Give me a note: your ladyship can set.
Lead their successes as we wish our own,
Then I must not say no.
on crutches till he had one.
It must not be: if Cassio do remain,
The best I had, a princess wrought it me,
Am sure I scared the Dauphin and his trull,
Than all you fiery oes and eyes of light.
Which ever as she could with haste dispatch,
The goodness of the night upon you, friends!
Nor scrape trencher, nor wash dish
Remaineth none but mad-brain'd Salisbury;
Some men there are love not a gaping pig;
falls from bias of nature; there's father against
Dread prince of plackets, king of codpieces,
Good night.
Arraigning his unkindness with my soul;
I have procured thee, Jack, a charge of foot.
Reveals before 'tis ripe, what thou dost know
And let me all your fortunes understand.
calling. But here comes Boult.
Who, having no external thing to lose
think the duke hath lost never a man, but one that
Full of unpleasing blots and sightless stains,
Why old men fool and children calculate,
Royal Egypt, Empress!
Which, happily, foreknowing may avoid, O, speak!
For the most part, too, they are foolish that are so.
Or I, whate'er it be,
It did, it did; alas the day, it did!
And might not be delivered to the world,
Forsooth, an inventory, thus importing;
There my Lysander and myself shall meet;
And my invention thrive, Edmund the base
Exeunt Citizens
Throws the dishes at them, and drives them out
And, lo, the happiness! go, and importune her.
When English measure backward their own ground
To leave the Talbot and to follow us.
Aside
When he was predominant.
I am very glad to see you, signior
As I have set it down.
Aside to ARIEL
The hour draws on. To the oak, to the oak!
By hurting it; or when to the lute
[Aside]  O, ho, I know the riddle.--I will go.
the moon out of her sphere, if she would continue
O diable, diable! vat is in my closet? Villain! larron!
too little for pomp to enter: some that humble
it drizzles rain; and I will, like a true drunkard,
Nerissa, that I cannot choose one nor refuse none?
Who neigh'd so high, that what I would have spoke
Either death or you I'll find immediately.
Pertains to you alone.
A letter from the magnificent Armado.
Come, let us leave her;
SCENE III. The temple of Diana at Ephesus; THAISA standing
Ay, Marcius, Caius Marcius: dost thou think
Enter Serving-men, in skirmish, with bloody pates
Scorn now their hand should give them burial.
Sweet, except not any;
Marry, the son of my grandfather.
Whose high respect and rich validity
Your joys with like relation. Go together,
But what a point, my lord, your falcon made,
The wrinkles in my brows, now filled with blood,
drum struck up this afternoon: 'tis, as it were, a
Is it true, think you?
biting of it, what pain she felt: truly, she makes
Seeking sweet favours from this hateful fool,
[Reads]
England ne'er had a king until his time.
That dost not bite so nigh
For thy undaunted mettle should compose
Most savage and unnatural!
desperate ones, for a madman owes 'em.
Why look you so upon me?
Here is better than the open air; take it
[Aside]          What from Antioch?
If we have entrance, as I hope we shall,
She'll flay thy wolvish visage. Thou shalt find
They are of Norway, sir.
Welcome. Set down your venerable burthen,
For I am ignorant and cannot guess.
enow before; e'en as many as could well live, one by
But tread the stranger paths of banishment.
Stand in hard cure.
SCENE II. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Did, with his iron tongue and brazen mouth,
Cats, that can judge as fitly of his worth
Give me my sin again.
it, nor am I yet persuaded to put up in peace what
Why, man, he's a very devil; I have not seen such a
you do not use me with that affability as in
Dies
Gazed each on other, and look'd deadly pale.
I warrant you, sir, let me alone.
Whiles, in his moan, the ship splits on the rock,
Will you sit down?
What! how! how!
Was as another nature, dumb; outwent her,
I have many other ways to die; meantime
The main blaze of it is past, but a small thing
her very description.
As she is troubled with thick coming fancies,
Thou'ldst meet the bear i' the mouth. When the
In truth, I know not. I was set at work
therefore your grace may well say I have lost it.
With reeky shanks and yellow chapless skulls;
To do this outrage: and it now is done.
Honour and plenteous safety--that you read
Peace, children, peace! the king doth love you well:
Or for love's sake, a word that loves all men,
I will do this, if I can bring it to any
Now Jove, in his next commodity of hair, send thee a beard!
The spinsters and the knitters in the sun
have a coxcomb of frize? 'Tis time I were choked
Exeunt
his bargain; for he was never yet a breaker of
We have had pelting wars, since you refused
SCENE II. A room of state in the castle.
to keep my pack from fasting: they throng who
My gentle Marcius, worthy Caius, and
His sword did ne'er leave striking in the field.
Vat is de clock, Jack?
Drops earliest to the ground; and so let me
The lion and the belly-pinched wolf
enterprise. We pray you, for your own sake, to
to do the prince my master good; which who knows how
The foul witch Sycorax, who with age and envy
To send their smiles before them to Achilles;
Enter the Lords of the city
I saw the wound, I saw it with mine eyes,--
Bum, sir.
SCENE III. Venice. A street.
Even with the sword that kill'd thee.
there's no heed to be taken of them; if Caesar had
Wears out his time, much like his master's ass,
Or scant our former having in despite;
her earnest?
I'll bring you comfort.
She loved them most.
His daughter is to be brought by you to the supper.
What, not to pray?
Would have him punished. And now to our French causes:
By the fool multitude, that choose by show,
But Romeo may not: more validity,
Owe and succeed thy weakness.
the instant: by heart you love her, because your
His steeds to water at those springs
Now, trust me, were it not against our laws,
Most freely I confess, myself and Toby
King Philip, listen to the cardinal.
Kind Rome, that hast thus lovingly reserved
That do conspire my death with devilish plots
But one, the wicked'st caitiff on the ground,
recovered?
I made to it, to know of whence you are.
And, like a troop of jolly huntsmen, come
What she has done for me?
and to be melancholy; and here is part of my rhyme,
Marcius!
Ay, that there was, mine host; one that hath taught
That fears a painted devil. If he do bleed,
Which of us fears.
methinks I am marvellous hairy about the face; and I
All flaxen was his poll:
If it be thus to dream, still let me sleep!
Vherefore vill you not meet-a me?
Under this thick-grown brake we'll shroud ourselves;
My lady is bespoke.
Thus smiling, as some fly hid tickled slumber,
That York is most unmeet of any man.
And thither bear your treasure and your goods.
Ay, that I do; as well as I love any woman in
The honourable lady of the house, which is she?
Will give you satisfaction, you may have't.
tush, man, mortal men, mortal men.
Girding with grievous siege castles and towns;
at no man's jests, eat when I have stomach and wait
Go, call the people:
ANTIPHOLUS
Follow'd my banishment, and this twenty years
And then, to sleep but three hours in the night,
upon the exploit themselves; which they shall have
thy wits than, I am sure, I have in my whole five:
How many children hast thou, widow? tell me.
Ned, prithee, come out of that fat room, and lend me
here? a man or a fish? dead or alive? A fish:
perfect yellow.
Well said, Hal! to it Hal! Nay, you shall find no
For ruin's wasteful entrance: there, the murderers,
I think 'tis no unwelcome news to you.
Methinks my zeal to Valentine is cold,
Kill Brutus, and be honour'd in his death.
Have I since your departure had, my lords.
That thought them sure of you.
I'll send those powers o'er to your majesty.
Why, sweet Othello,--
Might well have given us bloody argument.
Had challenged pity of them. Was this a face
Of their white flags display'd, they bring us peace,
I brought my master news of Juliet's death;
Enter KING HENRY, LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER, the EARL of WESTMORELAND, SIR WALTER BLUNT, and others
If low, an agate very vilely cut;
thy soldiership, will subscribe for thee. Farewell.
Flourish. Exeunt
Though palaces and pyramids do slope
Ay; you did wish that I would make her turn:
Why, boy! why, wag! how now! what's the matter?
to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream
Bliss in our brows' bent; none our parts so poor,
Nor cutpurses come not to throngs;
Sweet lovers love the spring.
To help our fielded friends! Come, blow thy blast.
Infect the air! Twinn'd brothers of one womb,
'Yea,' quoth my husband,'fall'st upon thy face?
Consent to swear.
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love:
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
What, wouldst thou have a serpent sting thee twice?
There's nothing I have done yet, o' my conscience,
beguiled Master Slender of his chain cozened him of
Too deep and dead, poor infants, in their grave.
But when I meet you arm'd, as black defiance
Go, then; find me a meet hour to draw Don Pedro and
For at their hands I have deserved no pity.
Enter GOWER and FLUELLEN, meeting
That as it more concerns the Turk than Rhodes,
conscience.
How long hath this possession held the man?
question to be asked. There is a thing, Harry,
As men in rage strike those that wish them best,
Arm'd as we are, let's stay within this house.
Call 'em; let me see 'em.
Do make against it. No, good Worcester, no,
You made in a day, my lord, whole towns to fly.
Exit
Was in his countenance. You he bade
Silvia, I speak to you, and you, Sir Thurio;
whereof being by circumstances partly laid open,
All books of love, see that at any hand;
believed, so; if not, let them that should reward
To wit, an indigested and deformed lump,
She that would be your wife now ran from you.
Is troth-plight to your daughter. Good Paulina,
I will discase me, and myself present
We might recover all our loss again;
To help Cominius.
acre of barren ground, long heath, brown furze, any
wit, together with most weak hams: all which, sir,
SCENE III. Tarsus. A room in CLEON's house.
Is this Achilles?
Of whom thy father, Prince of Wales, was first:
Into the vale of years,--yet that's not much--
Rome could afford no tribune like to these.
good natures
Thy temples should be planted presently
Exit
That is beloved. How dost thou like this tune?
Than where swine feed!
Crowns in my purse I have and goods at home,
O the gods! what's the matter?
that Hero loves me; intend a kind of zeal both to the
Shall never tremble: or be alive again,
Enter HAMLET
The Hebrew will turn Christian: he grows kind.
And swear I got them in the Gallia wars.
The fearful difference of incensed kings:
I heard a child cry underneath a wall.
But more when envy breeds unkind division;
And, with thy hand, thy faith irrevocable,
Out of my grief and my impatience,
Within whose circuit is Elysium
Or felt that pain which I did for him once,
My lord of Ely!
Poor worm, thou art infected!
Knock,
Then thus for you, my lord: it stands agreed,
Enter PROTEUS, SILVIA, and JULIA
Let him be brought into the orchard here.
Nor, princes, is it matter new to us
come, come; trib, trib.
The quintessence of every sprite
stones; by gar, he shall not have a stone to throw
Sweet are the uses of adversity,
Yet an arch-villain keeps him company.
The heaviest and the worst
I warrant it is: and thy head stands so tickle on
To daff't for our repose, shall hear a storm.
Enter BRUTUS
Like boys unto a muss, kings would start forth,
You shall become true liegemen to his crown:
Has not so much wit--
Pray you, speak no more to me: I will leave all as I
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
My young remembrance cannot parallel
This is not yet an Alexandrian feast.
And then we'll try what these dastard Frenchmen dare.
'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
SCENE VI. Another part of the plains.
Come current for an accusation
I never yet beheld that special face
Enter GOWER and WILLIAMS
To dinner presently.
By moonshine did these lovers think no scorn
Now, divine air! now is his soul ravished! Is it
PROLOGUE
Nor tent to bottom that. But speak.
It is not Caesar's natural vice to hate
Shall, after three days' open penance done,
Though he be blunt, I know him passing wise;
Enter PRINCE HENRY, SALISBURY, and BIGOT
But not for joy; not joy. This entertainment
horse, and he frets like a gummed velvet.
Exeunt all but CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER and Legate
The man, I do assure you, is not here;
From certain and possess'd conveniences,
How say you, my lord? are you not content?
I cannot now prove constant to myself,
He's as tall a man as any's in Illyria.
mutinies in a man's bosom; it fills one full of
I'll watch Titania when she is asleep,
Enter LAUNCELOT, with a letter
some stair-work, some trunk-work, some
It should be challenged.
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil!
Exeunt Musicians
Bring in the admiration; that we with thee
Exit a Lord
How if, when I am laid into the tomb,
Take her hence:
What say you of Kent?
To revenge is no valour, but to bear.
In what I further shall intend to do,
And breathed such life with kisses in my lips,
A parlous knock; and it cried bitterly:
not by favour. Our king, being ready to leap out of
Fie, no, do not believe it; he cannot want for money.
Says that this deed is chronicled in hell.
Come, good sweet lady. Prithee, Virgilia, turn thy
confession, learn to begin thy health; but, whilst I
My friend Stephano, signify, I pray you,
Not with the empty hollowness, but weight:
We arrest your word.
Grievingly I think,
Are not you the chief woman? you are the thickest here.
[Within]	Heaven secure him!
Come hither, gentlemen,
what a' will say.
Like warlike as the wolf for what we eat;
If you affect him, sister, here I swear
If not Achilles? Though't be a sportful combat,
Then spare not the old father. Mighty sir,
wages. She hath more qualities than a water-spaniel;
With all their honourable point of ignorance
glad to receive. I am confessor to Angelo, and I
seven, two, tree hours for him, and he is no come.
They do not love that do not show their love.
Might be the be-all and the end-all here,
thought no less: that flattering tongue of yours
Go charge my goblins that they grind their joints
Who servest thou under?
the meat cool ere we can agree upon the first place:
Give me thy hand; 'tis late: farewell; good night.
But, like a timorous thief, most fain would steal
Which for our goods we do no further ask
You adopt your policy, how is it less or worse,
Reads
women the play may please. If I were a woman I
Virtue! a fig! 'tis in ourselves that we are thus
stuff a rabbit; and so may you, sir: and so, adieu,
Ready in gibes, quick-answer'd, saucy and
There, Diomed there.
should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away
There stands the castle, by yon tuft of trees,
The ordering of the mind too, 'mongst all colours
The trial just and noble. All the clerks,
Look, in this place ran Cassius' dagger through:
The undiscover'd country from whose bourn
And make the silken strings delight to kiss them,
The doubt is that he will seduce the rest.
Old Escanes, whom Helicanus late
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
Than when he bites, but lanceth not the sore.
Fly, fly, fly! Sir Humphrey Stafford and his
Even with the having: it is not so with thee.
And being fed by us you used us so
Cannot, is false, and that I dare not, falser:
These are the forgeries of jealousy:
Greater than great, great, great, great Pompey!
Why, how now, Juliet!
And by good fortune I have lighted well
Hath taught us how to cherish such high deeds
That striking in our country's cause
One who, to put thee from thy heaviness,
Till I have found each letter in the letter,
My poor corpse, where my bones shall be thrown:
O, he hath kept an evil diet long,
He is an absolute master.
O upright judge! Mark, Jew: O learned judge!
Paris your brother, and Deiphobus,
Which I will do with confirm'd countenance.
By means whereof his highness hath lost France.
Where is my prince, the Dauphin?
between that and my blood.
And leave your children, wives and you in peace.
In honour of my noble Lord of York:
I beseech you, be not so phlegmatic. Hear the truth
why, being son to me, art thou so pointed at? Shall
Why, how now, lord!
SCENE I. The house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
Sit, cousin Percy; sit, good cousin Hotspur,
Resign to death; it is not worth the enjoying:
thee for pity.
That, notwithstanding thy capacity
Enter Senator, with papers in his hand
That for thine own gain shouldst defend mine honour?
misprised: but it shall not be so long; this
May well abate the over-merry spleen
Some other is more fit.
SCENE II. Capulet's orchard.
Our bloods are now in calm; and, so long, health!
Get you gone, you dwarf;
Come, gentlemen, we sit too long on trifles,
Enter THURIO, PROTEUS, and JULIA
And the continuance of their parents' rage,
Dogs, easily won to fawn on any man!
your bowl.
Was not that nobly done? Ay, and wisely too;
It's fit this royal session do proceed;
hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is
You speak it out of fear and cold heart.
How blow? how blow? speak to be understood.
If any power pities wretched tears,
with divines, and have all charitable preparation.
There is occasions and causes why and wherefore in
her husband, another elevated that the oracle was
Look upon him, love him; he worships you.
when you find him out, you have him ever after.
His head unmellow'd, but his judgment ripe;
That works him strongly.
Pray, set it down and rest you: when this burns,
I know't; I thank you. You do love my lord:
He was paid for that: though mean and
Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline.
Seek him out, and play the tune the while.
Pointing to Goneril
tres-puissant seigneur.
And therefore may be broke without offence.
I must of another errand to Sir John Falstaff from
So looks the pent-up lion o'er the wretch
How shall she know my griefs? I'll drop the paper:
a temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it
Obedience, which you owe your father. For
Still question'd me the story of my life,
And your reports have set the murder on.
Speak, Pucelle, and enchant him with thy words.
This will prove a brave kingdom to me, where I shall
Cavaleiro-justice, I say!
Enter COUNTESS, LAFEU, and Clown
That wishing well had not a body in't,
There's in him stuff that puts him to these ends;
Peace, ho! the moon sleeps with Endymion
Seeking to hide herself, as doth the deer
Paddock calls.
In man as well as herbs, grace and rude will;
suitors have strong breaths: they shall know we
Let us to the great supper: their cheer is the
And chiefly therefore I thank God and thee;
Grumio, mum! God save you, Signior Gremio.
A slave whose gall coins slanders like a mint,
So half my Egypt were submerged and made
You scurvy lord!
Is it e'en so? why, then, I thank you all
Well, I would you did like me.
they should exhibit their petitions in the street?
Music. The witches dance and then vanish, with HECATE
In praising her: I tell thee, lord of Greece,
Take thou this note;
Come, madam, and come, Richard, we must speed
SCENE V. The English camp near Bourdeaux.
Alack, alack, what blood is this, which stains
You, mistress,
You should in all sense be much bound to him.
Pardon me, Bianca:
Of a poor 'pothecary, and therewithal
rash; then must we look to receive from his age,
Your use and counsel, we shall send for you.
set this counterfeit.
For whom my heart drops blood, and my false spirits
Kills me to look on't. Let there be no honour
[Advancing]
The cry is still 'They come:' our castle's strength
And when came you to serve our Roman captive?
In their own shapes; for it can never be
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
Sir, sir, be patient.
But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees,
For I fear Cassio with my night-cap too--
Enter the army of the Volsces
Not till I sheathe it in a murderer's skin.
Till you hear further from me.
For the which, as I told you, Antonio shall be bound.
This factious bandying of their favourites,
His ring I do accept most thankfully:
Then is Caesar and he for ever knit together.
Something I can command. As I walk thither,
And she shall thank you for't, if e'er you know her.
That I'll try.
I learn in this letter that Don Peter of Arragon
Enter a troop of Citizens
surgeon, some upon their wives left poor behind
So many captains, gentlemen and soldiers,
She hath herself not only well defended
Begin to part their fringes of bright gold;
What shouts are these? The other side o' the city
Consign to thee, and come to dust.
Tell him there's a post come from my master, with
Had she such power,
fly from God: war is his beadle, war is vengeance;
Get on your nightgown, lest occasion call us,
For me, that I may surely keep mine oath,
A whispering tale in a fair lady's ear,
There's not a hollow cave or lurking-place,
Yet here's a spot.
See you here, sir?
Lo, by thy side where Rape and Murder stands;
SCENE IV. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
But since he hath
Ne'er seen but wonder'd at: and so my state,
Not so, an't please your worship.
First, let her show her face, and after speak.
No, faith, my coz, wish not a man from England:
Give me thy hand. I had a thing to say,
So common-hackney'd in the eyes of men,
providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now,
To sleep: perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub;
Enter to them, MENENIUS
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
Within my soul there doth conduce a fight
O, methought, there was nothing meet.
How they affect the house and claim of York.
Than in my greatness covet to be hid,
Well, sweet queen. you are pleasant with me. But,
Now, by the jealous queen of heaven, that kiss
Along the field I will the Trojan trail.
I am not bound to that all slaves are free to.
But by the chance of war; to prove that true
blame me to piss my tallow? Who comes here? my
'True is it, my incorporate friends,' quoth he,
Look, how thy wounds do bleed at many vents!
When arm in arm they both came swiftly running,
Shall in procession sing her endless praise.
What joy is joy, if Silvia be not by?
Salutes ye all; this night he dedicates
For I did dream of money-bags to-night.
Most constantly.
imaginations of your own heart: this is jealousies.
What, Eros, Eros!
[Within]  If thou attempt it, it will cost thee dear:
The villain is alive in Titus' house,
That a king's children should be so convey'd,
thank my good father, I am able to maintain it.
let him roar again.'
I see you have a month's mind to them.
When first this order was ordain'd, my lords,
Thou divine Nature, how thyself thou blazon'st
How, my lord!
It shall be so; and at the other hill
to Ajax: he will be the ninth Worthy. A conqueror,
ACT II
To mask thy monstrous visage? Seek none, conspiracy;
Exit
That ever-valiant and approved Scot,
What is amiss?
Reads
With those that I saw suffer: a brave vessel,
judgment, your highness is not entertained with that
And careful hours with time's deformed hand
And by the way possess thee what she is.
Bleeding to Rome, bearing his valiant sons
Who, when my heart, all mad with misery,
In all submission and humility
his own head, the king is not to answer it.
I have deserved no better entertainment,
ta'en you newly into his grace; where it is
Exeunt
For pilferings and most common trespasses
Thou know'st our meaning. Look for thy reward
For three performers are the file when all
Antonius dead!--If thou say so, villain,
Witness my tears, I cannot stay to speak.
have a friend here convey, convey him out. Be not
Enter RICHARD PLANTAGENET
For she had eyes, and chose me. No, Iago;
the anatomy.
I prithee now, my son,
It makes us, or it mars us; think on that,
have I heard on o' the land, who never leave gaping
are drown'd.
Were my fortunes equal to my desires, I could wish
Why, the house you dwell in proclaims you to be a
And I'll appear again.
What more commands he?
Of what complexion?
His very air, that I should call you brother,
Wilt thou be lord of the whole world? That's twice.
You shall not have it, Diomed; faith, you shall not;
The king to attach Lord Montacute; and the bodies
Calmly, I do beseech you.
They will, then, ere't be long.
Soundly invite him--his two chamberlains
How came we ashore?
Within this mile break forth a hundred springs;
You said that idle weeds are fast in growth
Within the guilty closure of thy walls
I heard him swear his affection.
Here, my lord, in readiness.
And what makes robbers bold but too much lenity?
And pray her to a fault for which I chid her.
Good Signior Angelo, you must excuse us all;
We'ld jump the life to come. But in these cases
A leg, a limb?
Is not this suit of mine, that thou declare
Straight let us seek, or straight we shall be sought;
That all the plagues of hell should at one time
He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him.
He lies to-night within seven leagues of Rome.
Enter CAPHIS
First, of my word; therefore play, music. Prince,
Our old and faithful friend, we are glad to see you.
Is not so long as is a tedious tale.
For there will be a world of water shed
I must be held a rancorous enemy.
To Richmond, in those parts beyond the sea
I will be bitter with him and passing short.
Let him fear this, for it will come to pass
This fellow could not drown. Now, blasphemy,
Before young Talbot from old Talbot fly,
I will fashion to fall out between twelve and one,
Exeunt
But as we, under heaven, are supreme head,
If it be honour in your wars to seem
will relent;
The penalty and forfeit of my bond.
SCENE I. The Abbey at Bury St. Edmund's.
'Item: She is too liberal.'
And threw it towards thy land: the sea received it,
I'll not believe't.
Enter SIMONIDES, reading a letter, at one door: the Knights meet him
Wherein we must have use of your advice:
O, very mad, exceeding mad, in love too:
Fulvia is dead.
Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you
That they have let the dangerous enemy
Re-enter First Gaoler
Romeo that spoke him fair, bade him bethink
If I do line one of their hands? 'Tis gold
Moor-ditch?
As mad as the vex'd sea; singing aloud;
Yet, when we can entreat an hour to serve,
Nay, let me have't; I long.
Returns the good Andronicus to Rome,
Do you not see that I am out of breath?
My master calls me, I must not say no.
The harvest is your own.
Whom he hath used rather for sport than need
executed, and sleep afterwards.
They surfeited with honey and began
have threaten'd
Before the curing of a strong disease,
Stand we in good array; for they no doubt
Thou sheer, immaculate and silver fountain,
But that it would be double-dealing, sir, I would
And let his manly face, which promiseth
Why, then you mean not as I thought you did.
ANTIPHOLUS
And that which most with you should safe my going,
furnished. They were young and handsome, and of the
And to bestow your pity on me: for
Go thou with him; and when it is thy hap
rest on's body cold. Look, here comes a walking fire.
O, 'tis too true.
The riches of it: do his bidding; strike
What said she? nothing?
To fall in love with him; but, for my part,
By him and by this woman here what know you?
You should not have believed me; for virtue cannot
This must be answer'd either here or hence.
To play till doomsday. Bring our crown and all.
You should have said, sir, before a knave thou'rt a
at such a convoy; who came off bravely, who was
And therein, hellish dog, thou hast undone.
To the Fool
Henceforward I am ever ruled by you.
no stronger than a nutshell and as leaky as an
And morsels unctuous, greases his pure mind,
Sir, as concerning some entertainment of time, some
And strain their cheeks to idle merriment,
I have slept, my lord, already.
Up, sword; and know thou a more horrid hent:
That struck the hour!--it was in Rome,--accursed
And here's another
Modest as Justice, and thou seem'st a palace
No, no, he's gone.
nothing; and that that I did, I was set on to do't
Do not, porpentine, do not: my fingers itch.
That knew'st this was the prince,
See justice done on Aaron, that damn'd Moor,
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Foul weather?
Take heed; for he holds vengeance in his hands,
O pretty Isabella, I am pale at mine heart to see
I am sorry that the Duke of Buckingham
For fear of swallowing; but with nimble wing
Once I encounter'd him, and thus I said:
Kent! father! sisters! What, i' the storm? i' the night?
I came from Edward as ambassador,
Know you him?
That makes thee stare thus? Wherefore breaks that sigh
Nay, send in time.
And yet here's one in place I cannot pardon.
Marry, if you would put me to verses or to dance for
Is not a dukedom, sir, a goodly gift?
A plot upon her virtuous husband's life;
of affection would deliver me from the reprobate
the fellow dares not deceive me.
And fall a-cursing, like a very drab,
Titus Andronicus, my lord the emperor
what's noble,
To plainer ground.
Let there be the same net spread for her; and that
For many men that stumble at the threshold
Did urge me in his act: I did inquire it;
In Florence was it from a casement thrown me,
She may be honest yet. Tell me but this,
Who dotes, yet doubts, suspects, yet strongly loves!
Who are you? Tell me, for more certainty,
Keep the door close, sirrah.
Exit BIGOT
There's one did laugh in's sleep, and one cried
My conscience tells me he is lawful king.
For, I profess, you have it.
To tell you, fair beholders, that our play
Now, Iras, what think'st thou?
O God! methinks it were a happy life,
You shall know now that I am in estimation; you shall
I am afraid, sir,
God save King Henry, of that name the sixth!
There's not a god left unsolicited.
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard,
Pours into captains' wounds? Banishment!
I had forgot thee: O, come in, Emilia;
Is overthrown by noble Brutus' power,
Whereto if you'll a willing ear incline,
Re-enter BENVOLIO
Have no delight to pass away the time,
Does he not?
Is that my prize? are my deserts no better?
He has borne all things well: and I do think
Thou wast whelped a dog, and thou shalt famish a
What lady would you choose to assail?
Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary
'Tis true.
'Dear daughter, I confess that I am old;
which may make you and him to rue at the other.
Crust you quite o'er! What, dost thou go?
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
O, for my beads! I cross me for a sinner.
But thou, 'gainst all proportion, didst bring in
please all.'
with Sir Oliver Martext, the vicar of the next
With this strict charge, even as he left his life,
Go home, call for sweet water, wash thy hands.
Virtuous and fair, royal and gracious.
Consumptions sow
Strive to be interess'd; what can you say to draw
schooled and yet learned, full of noble device, of
Let me see what he writes, and when he means to come.
The French have reinforced their scatter'd men:
As surely as I live, my lord.
Or I, I promise thee.
Exit
Was never holla'd to, nor cheer'd with horn,
Petruchio, patience; I am Grumio's pledge:
[Within]  Peace, ho, be here!
digestion, why hast thou not served thyself in to
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
And that is more than I will yield unto:
Neither.
To give her princely training, that she may be
Debate it at their leisure. Welcome, count;
To seek the light of truth; while truth the while
If any of my kinsmen find thee here.
master's false accusation; and, briefly, I desire
Of strong prevailment in unharden'd youth:
We'll hear no more.
Or any one of you, chop off your hand,
Exit DESDEMONA
Dare bite the best. I do beseech your lordships,
Your words have took such pains as if they labour'd
And give their fasting horses provender,
Allow not nature more than nature needs,
Let Richard be restored to his blood;
hath clapped him o' the shoulder, but I'll warrant
Night hangs upon mine eyes; my bones would rest,
Sleeping neglection doth betray to loss
I could do more to do Antonius good,
To keep them from uncivil outrages.
Not I, till I have sheathed
It cannot be.
As much to him, else is his thanks too much.
Exit BUCKINGHAM
Enter a Herald
Exit
alone with him: if I do not gull him into a
And good luck grant thee thy Demetrius!
Drawn in the flattering table of her eye.
And shows good husbandry for the Volscian state,
compulsion, I.
Still quiring to the young-eyed cherubins;
I am a Roman; and my services are,
thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
To signify thou camest to bite the world:
Hark, how the villain would close now, after his
Did lose his lustre: I did hear him groan:
His daughter first, and then in sequel all,
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
Till Paris was besieged, famish'd, and lost.
sworn brother, a very simple gentleman! I have sold
Have with you.
But let that go.
Thou hast a lady far more beautiful
Purpose return. Why hast thou gone so far,
Shall have my Bianca's love.
I'll send the fool to Ajax and desire him
Shall be struck off.' Hector, what say you to't?
fighter, though now a man of peace.
These lords, my noble fellows, if they please,
desire you to eat it.
What, shall these papers lie like tell-tales here?
I have fled myself; and have instructed cowards
And all my followers to the eager foe
worship's name.
There goes the Talbot, with his colours spread,
Exeunt
And so farewell, till we shall meet again.
When I would pray and think, I think and pray
of most allowed sufficiency, yet opinion, a
that the wrestling might not go forward.
I'll put it on.
Why, there then: thus I do escape the sorrow
Your valiant Britons have their wishes in it.
My noble lord, from Eastcheap.
Why, if two gods should play some heavenly match
The fear's as bad as falling; the toil o' the war,
Why, what of that?
Shall tithe or toll in our dominions;
It lends a lustre and more great opinion,
Did this companion with the saffron face
You are i' the right, sir: 'tis for my mistress.
I have no spleen against you; nor injustice
That thus he marcheth with thee arm in arm?
Is touch'd corruptibly, and his pure brain,
You must needs have them with a codpiece, madam.
What of that?
Thou gavest me poison: dangerous fellow, hence!
To walk abroad, and recreate yourselves.
And make his eyeballs roll with wonted sight.
i' the cold ground. My brother shall know of it:
Those will I muster up: and thou, son Clarence,
Macduff is fled to England.
Then do but say to me what I should do
For many good and great deserts to Rome:
His eldest sister, Anne,
Drinking my griefs, whilst you mount up on high.
Come, shall I make you two friends? We must to
Farewell, Andronicus: Revenge now goes
Bid Butler lead him forth into the park.
The day frowns more and more: thou'rt like to have
Your reason?
A woman, that is like a German clock,
familiar with men's pockets as their gloves or their
No, sir.
For even the breath of what I mean to speak
In your bad strokes, Brutus, you give good words:
our prains together to be revenge on this same
Force me to keep you as a prisoner,
Enter the Lords to RICHMOND, sitting in his tent
Hearing us praise our loves of Italy
And in the imitation of these twain--
Ay, for a turtle, as he takes a buzzard.
Approach the fold and cull the infected forth,
I'll beat the knave into a twiggen bottle.
But let concealment, like a worm i' the bud,
Money buys lands, and wives are sold by fate.
Fie upon thee! art not ashamed?
And made her widow to a woful bed?
We would spend it in some words upon that business,
For which we lose our heads to gild his horns.
COUNTESS
Then music with her silver sound'--
Give me fresh garments. Mine own, Helicanus;
Foul shame upon you! you have all moved mine.
drowning thyself! it is clean out of the way: seek
And little Ned Plantagenet, his son?
To raise a spirit in his mistress' circle
You are young, Sir Harry Guildford.
And Tom bears logs into the hall
Do but mistake.
How hath your lordship brook'd imprisonment?
Away! we'll none on 't: here has been too much
Exeunt
Let us go thank him and encourage him:
again; and after it again; and over and over he
Once more to-day well met, distemper'd lords!
a great man, I'll warrant; I know by the picking
But till the troops come by,
Say, wall-eyed slave, whither wouldst thou convey
I understand you not.
As she from one ungot.
And while it is so, none so dry or thirsty
Is he so young a man and so old a lifter?
Don John for accusing the Lady Hero wrongfully.
What means that bloody knife?
humours since the old days of goodman Adam to the
In weeping after this untimely bier.
She sees not Hermia. Hermia, sleep thou there:
What sayest thou? speak suddenly; be brief.
Exeunt
That you have wrong'd me doth appear in this:
Preserver of my father, now of me,
say they be fled; Germans are honest men.
And mark what way I make: come, good my lord.
And left us to the rage of France his sword.
court-cupboard, look to the plate. Good thou, save
O villains, vipers, damn'd without redemption!
Few words, but, to effect, more than all yet;
By my troth, sir, if I were to live this present
Tend me to-night;
which my nose is in great indignation.
right to trust none; and the fine is, for the which
Which we have not done neither: that, I fear,
You had of her pure honour gains or loses
Come, let me see what task I have to do.
To bandy word for word and frown for frown;
Nor met with fortune other than at feasts,
thought, because he could not speak English in the
Play with your fancies, and in them behold
Which thou thyself hast given her woful breast.
I had rather seal with my death than repeat over
This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what:
Will in that kingdom spend our following days:
With three or four loggerheads amongst three or four
By your renouncement an immortal spirit,
And not a thought but thinks on dignity.
Unready! ay, and glad we 'scaped so well.
Your troops of horsemen with his bands of foot;
Who died the minute I was born,
Then Clarence is at hand, I hear his drum.
Might be affronted with the match and weight
Gentlemen, God save you. If I may be bold,
It is more worthy to leap in ourselves,
And how you find of her.
Farewell, my hearts: I will to my honest knight
So tell him, with the occurrents, more and less,
Be kind and courteous to this gentleman;
As it hath fated her to be my motive
Their banners wave again.
And this same bias, this Commodity,
Hang all the husbands
Why, then may you leave a casement of the great
comes to speak with you. What is to be said to him,
Shall face to face be brought to Margaret,
[Aside]  This is a piece of malice. I am glad
She the adulteress; for the harlot king
The grosser manner of these world's delights
[Aside]  Now will I fetch the king to find them here,
loved, no sooner loved but they sighed, no sooner
And I must to Lorenzo and the rest:
pains to work her to your manage. Come, we will
Your ears unto your eyes I'll reconcile.
Do not say so, Lysander; say not so
Made former wonders its. To-day the French,
All in Bohemia's well; this satisfaction
SCENE I. A field near Frogmore.
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
And keeps the oath which by that god he swears,
to prison was worth five thousand of you all.
But we are spirits of another sort:
Each substance of a grief hath twenty shadows,
He bears him like a portly gentleman;
To bring me to him?
Are not inherited. Then, dear countryman,
But, Warwick,
She hath prevented me. Here, Signior Tranio.
To win the Moor again? For 'tis most easy
Art thou some god, some angel, or some devil,
I have seen better faces in my time
Full well hath Clifford play'd the orator,
Well, well, put up your sword.
You bees that make these locks of counsel! Lovers
Of our great action: therefore shall he die,
Enter certain Reapers, properly habited: they  join with the Nymphs in a graceful dance;  towards the end whereof PROSPERO starts  suddenly, and speaks; after which, to a  strange, hollow, and confused noise, they heavily vanish
Let him perceive how ill we brook his treason
'Tis certain she is fled.
O Titus, see, O, see what thou hast done!
Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:
and require her to solicit your master's desires to
You see him there, do you?
Come, boy, with me; my thoughts are ripe in mischief:
Go hie thee presently, post to the road:
Would think upon you for your voices and
Go, get thee to thy love, as was decreed,
And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful!
Or break it all to pieces: or there we'll sit,
Being an obstruct 'tween his lust and him.
And leave my followers here to fight and die?
Honour and policy, like unsever'd friends,
Thus are poor servitors,
The charges of our friends. Ye Roman gods!
A callat
will. What shalt thou exchange for rags? robes;
And charged us from his soul to love each other,
And bid her come hither.
Break with your wives of your departure hence:
Seek him, Titinius, whilst I go to meet
Into our presence, where this heaven of beauty
English John Talbot, captains, calls you forth,
To take the urgent hour. Come, sir, away.
Will tie you to the numbers and the time
As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:
I would your duty were as foolish too:
Of other lords and barons, knights and squires,
Or durst not, for his craven heart, say thus.
But why unkindly didst thou leave me so?
And let him know so.
would drown myself for the love of a guinea-hen, I
My noble lord,--
Exeunt
What guests were in her eyes; which parted thence,
Much more to be thus opposite with heaven,
For it appears, by manifest proceeding,
Faith, my lord,
As kill a king!
for your honest care: I will speak with you further anon.
And having thrown him from your watery grave,
Have power to utter. O, then we bring forth weeds,
Stay and be secret, and myself will go.
ape: he so near to Hermione hath done Hermione that
Exeunt IAGO and Attendants
I have great matters to impart to thee.
Nor is the wide world ignorant of her worth,
Hortensio; and I trow this is his house.
John de la Car, my chaplain, a choice hour
Doth stop my cornets, were in Talbot's place!
He sits 'mongst men like a descended god:
Lead me to the revolts of England here.
curiously, say my knife's naught. Shall I not find
With words that made them known. But thy vile race,
Malcolm and Donalbain, the king's two sons,
Stay, I will lend thee money, borrow none.
So fared our father with his enemies;
Within the volume of which time I have seen
If more, the more thou hast wrong'd me.
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
Nay, stay not to expostulate, make speed;
Since you did leave it for my office, sir.
Exeunt all but HAMLET
These hands are free from guiltless bloodshedding,
operation of your sun: so is your crocodile.
Know Banquo was your enemy.
Bestow'd his lips on that unworthy place,
Have in this robbery lost three hundred marks.
Sweet remembrancer!
To buy a slobbery and a dirty farm
Chi non ti vede non ti pretia.
Will you lead, lords?
Potations pottle-deep; and he's to watch:
Tie up my love's tongue bring him silently.
Exeunt RATCLIFF and the other Attendants
Will take away your life.
So the boy Love is perjured every where:
Brings in the champion Honour on my part,
May't please your lordship, 'tis a word or two
Moor is with child by you, Launcelot.
I do not like the man: had he been lay, my lord
In titles, honours and promotions,
And show of love as I was wont to have:
Come, come, beshrew your heart! you'll ne'er be good,
this business.
but I am a plain-dealing villain. I am trusted with
Stay:
Which can make gods forsworn? I melt, and am not
Have put his knife to him.'
We may the number of the ships behold,
All bond and privilege of nature, break!
Which torments me to conceal. By villany
From hence attend dispatch. Our good old friend,
I will not sleep, my lord, till I have delivered
ACT V
Enter CANIDIUS
Now climbeth Tamora Olympus' top,
To the Senators
At the lower end of the hall, hurl'd up their caps,
As once Europa did at lusty Jove,
Would imitate, and sail upon the land,
Bad news, my lord: Ely is fled to Richmond;
So much for this, sir: now shall you see the other;
the brains of my Cupid's knocked out, and I begin to
'Tis indeed, madam; we thank the giver.
A beast, as thou art. The canker gnaw thy heart,
name is Ford.
My lord of Burgundy.
Re-enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
accidentally to encounter you: you have ended my
And I have heard it said, unbidden guests
But on this travail look for greater birth.
Sentinels at their post
Thou then look'dst like a villain; now methinks
Yea, and much more: but I was born so high,
Or else come after: I'll away before.
you.
Or, if he were not privy to those faults,
Enter a Messenger
I'll catch it ere it come to ground:
May move your hearts to pity if you mark him.
Exit
[Going]  My lord, I take my leave.
A boon, my sovereign, for my service done!
No, friend, cannot you beg? Here's them in our
affection the one with the other. I would fain have
Which is both healthful and good husbandry:
[Aside]	Praise in departing.
Enough, sweet Suffolk; thou torment'st thyself;
It is not truer he is Angelo
Let me entreat you speak the former language.
Civil dissension is a viperous worm
Sir,
Hath set the women on to this complaint:
The least whereof would quell a lover's hope,
As I required: and wot you what I found
Told of a many thousand warlike French
For smoke and dusky vapours of the night,
killed him. Why may not he rise as well as I?
I think him so because I think him so.
Than Aquitaine so gelded as it is.
Bridget lost the handle of her fan, I took't upon
Do they still fly to the Roman?
with two old men without teeth.
After his brother: and importuned me
Do you not hear me speak?
points in the which women still give the lie to
To the people, beg their stinking breaths.
Dost thou conjure for wenches, that thou call'st
that; and for their bareness, I am sure they never
Will you not, sons?
Titania, music call; and strike more dead
Let them be free, marry them to your heirs?
I am no woman, I'll not swoon at it.
The gods, not the patricians, make it, and
Your gracious self to take on you the charge
Some food we had and some fresh water that
Ay.
And he that will not follow Bourbon now,
But fresher than before: and, as thou badest me,
I see, sir, you are liberal in offers
Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, NESTOR, DIOMEDES, and AJAX
For I have served him, and the man commands
In time I may believe, yet I mistrust.
trust my expectation.
'Tween snow and fire, as treason and my love.
For I have made an offer to his majesty,
Their cheeks are paper. Why, what read you there
Unto the sovereign mercy of the king;
Madam, this service I have done for you,
But tell me yet, dost thou not know my voice?
When daisies pied and violets blue
The farced title running 'fore the king,
I hold my life as dear as you do yours;
Now to deliver her possession up
Pardon, Caesar; Caesar, pardon:
me. I made me no more ado but took all their seven
My mind presumes, for his own good and ours.
And in the wood, where often you and I
Look up a-height; the shrill-gorged lark so far
Marry, sir, that's Claudio, Signior Claudio.
That we may arm us to encounter it.
The miserable have no other medicine
Have had to resort to you: for here have been
Though my mocks come home by me, I will now be merry.
With heraldry more dismal; head to foot
Talk not to me, for I'll not speak a word:
Hast thou no suit against my knight, my
Every man shift for all the rest, and
Your servant's servant is your servant, madam.
[Aside]  He's a strange fellow himself, and knows it
To grace occasions, let it be our suit
Her maiden strewments and the bringing home
The which you promised I should possess.
And when you loved, you were my other husband.
His goods confiscate to the duke's dispose,
Re-enter LEONATO and ANTONIO, with the Sexton
May tear a passage through the flinty ribs
new-fangled than an ape, more giddy in my desires
And as he errs, doting on Hermia's eyes,
dish of stewed prunes; and, by my troth, I cannot
I'ld speak with the Duke of Cornwall and his wife.
has the prettiest love-songs for maids; so without
Nor dignifies an impure thought with breath;
By having him, making yourself no less.
to think!--
As I have to be hurt. O gull! O dolt!
His dukedom and his chair with me is left.
Why, sir, she's a good creature. Lord Lord! your
Go, bear them hence; I will not hear them speak.
The lean and wrinkled Cassius; and 'twas I
Hark you, sir, do you know where ye are?
That are of suppler joints, follow them swiftly
I thank you, and will stay upon your leisure.
I must and will have Katharina to my wife.
A grave.
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Ay, widow? then I'll warrant
Is it not meant damnable in us, to be trumpeters of
Good ancient, you are welcome.
shapes, objects, ideas, apprehensions, motions,
Of bragging horror: so shall inferior eyes,
And so, intending other serious matters,
To deck his fortune with his virtuous deeds:
Whilst I awhile obsequiously lament
money of the king's coming down the hill; 'tis going
When time is ripe, which will be suddenly,
Give him a statue with his ancestors.
Men shut their doors against a setting sun.
'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
And shed my dear blood drop by drop in the dust,
I'll lay fourteen of my teeth,--
By my troth, thou sayest true; for since the little
be shamed. What, wife, I say! Come, come forth!
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends.
Sir, you have shown to-day your valiant strain,
What, will he not to bed?
I fear, with dancing is a little heated.
A losing suit against him. Are you answer'd?
How now, sir! have you that I sent you for?
Made to my father, while his blood was poor,
Timon, I fear me thou wilt give away thyself in
Cominius, Marcius your old enemy,
EDMUND is borne off
Do make myself a suitor to your daughter,
'Tis 'long of you that spur me with such questions.
That noble honour'd lord, is fear'd and loved?
Hath sullied all his gloss of former honour
Yea, is the worst well? very well took, i' faith;
No, faith, is't not, Kate: but thy speaking of my
Rather corrupt me ever!
But he that filches from me my good name
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark,
Where one on his side fights, thousands will fly.
I do believe that violent hands were laid
What dreadful dole is here!
of this to-morrow. Adieu.
to herself: it is very true.
the next turning.
And, if you will, tell what hath happened,
Were of an age: well, Susan is with God;
That thought her like her seeming; it had
When our quick minds lie still; and our ills told us
Proceeded well, to stop all good proceeding!
And to thy state of darkness hie thee straight:
My name, my good lord, is Parolles.
Pulcher.
To do me this last right.
Bear free and patient thoughts. But who comes here?
King Henry's peers and chief nobility
Like a forlorn and desperate castaway,
Death of thy soul! those linen cheeks of thine
Enter BENEDICK
Too modest are you;
By this hat, then, he in the red face had it; for
The trumpet any more. Pray you, Emilia,
of his head to the sole of his foot, he is all
Detest them, curse them: yet 'tis greater skill
By ought that I can speak in his dispraise,
Hath not that honour in't it had; for where
No friend, no hope; no kindred weep for me;
And is't not pity, O my grieved friends,
Of yonder knight?
By gentlemen at hand.
rightly, can ever believe such impossible passages
SCENE IV. Before Corioli.
Excursions. Re-enter JOAN LA PUCELLE fighting hand  to hand with YORK. JOAN LA PUCELLE is taken. The French fly.
will you go, Mistress Page?
Come, come, have with you. Wot you what, my lord?
Malice ne'er meant: our breach of duty this way
A lemon.
Unless it be by inspiration.
Exit
my name is Brook; only for a jest.
Will suddenly break forth. Sir, fare you well:
My poverty, but not my will, consents.
Indian. Legged like a man and his fins like
Which, being cruel to the world, concluded
So think of your estate.
Incapable and shallow innocents,
Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love,
Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners;
The queen being absent, 'tis a needful fitness
He might have chid me so; for, in good faith,
Good Master Fabian, grant me another request.
any man of quality,--I hope to be saved.
Pluck down forms, windows, any thing.
You'll mar it if you kiss it, stain your own
And there awake God's gentle-sleeping peace.
What do you esteem it at?
You must eat men. Yet thanks I must you con
Which I could fancy more than any other.
Art thou aught else but place, degree and form,
Is often laudable, to do good sometime
Fly off our loves again!
And throw it thence into the raging sea!
The wofull'st man that ever lived in Rome:
Daylight and champaign discovers not more: this is
May have some scope to beat, or else I swoon
I am sorry for't: the man is a proper man, of mine
Was that the king, that spurred his horse so hard
Ay, if I be alive and your mind hold and your dinner
Thy ignominy sleep with thee in the grave,
choose but fall by pailfuls. What have we
He is walked up to the top of the hill: I'll go seek him.
On such a full sea are we now afloat;
Why the Grecians sacked Troy?
cannot play upon me.
it would not much approve me. Well, sir?
There,--on my conscience, put unwittingly?
I am glad 'tis night, you do not look on me,
He was? Why, so! go all which way it will!
that way: but nobody but has his fault; but let
Injurious Hermia! most ungrateful maid!
An undergoing stomach, to bear up
Enter the PRINCESS of France, ROSALINE, MARIA, KATHARINE, BOYET, Lords, and other Attendants
Come, come, thou art as hot a Jack in thy mood as
I fear my brother Mortimer doth stir
How near's the other army?
Nor I your mother?
Call him in.
Enter FORD, PAGE, SHALLOW, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
He is no crescent, and his horns are
That love's keen arrows make.
None, since the curfew rung.
Was levied in the body of a land.
For, in my sense, 'tis happiness to die.
divinity, to any other's, profanation.
blessed!--any hurt in the world; but keeps the
about him to-day, I can tell them that: and there's
I alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with
We have received your letters full of love;
There is no more to say?
Who to my father was a friend, to me
How thou camest here thou mayst.
With the most boldest and best hearts of Rome.
Exeunt CARDINAL, SOMERSET, and others
I hate: I had as lief be a Brownist as a
Commanded always by the greater gust;
That led calm Henry, though he were a king,
In bed asleep, while they do dream things true.
if two such murderers as yourselves came to you,
Shards, flints and pebbles should be thrown on her;
An affable and courteous gentleman:
To fright me with your sprites; you're powerful at it.
And stir them up against a mightier task.
clog at his heels: if I thought it were a piece of
Sir, I am a poor friend of yours, that loves you.
SCENE III. London. A street.
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds:
Enter another Gentleman
What never-dying honour hath he got
nothing still.
That hand, which, for thy love, did kill thy love,
Masters, lay down your weapons.
My crown I am; but still my griefs are mine:
To a rope's-end, sir; and to that end am I returned.
What, are we cuckolds ere we have deserved it?
That, with his pretty buzzing melody,
With the rude brevity and discharge of one.
His answer was, the people were not wont
'tis a withered pear; it was formerly better;
Thy brother was a furtherer in the act.
and broke three of his ribs, that there is little
Nay, then, give him another staff: this last was
Till half an hour hence.
carpet consideration; but he is a devil in private
Amen.
Go you to Juliet ere you go to bed,
My grandsire, well advised, hath sent by me
And make your peace with Caesar.
This maid will serve my turn, sir.
Or, if sour woe delights in fellowship
have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings
Either both or none.
And let me see thee in thy woman's weeds.
the worst'?
will say, 'Came you off with so little?' and great
And speak as loud as Mars. By Jupiter,
If thou be found by me, thou art but dead.
To hear me speak his good now?
No, not till Thursday; there is time enough.
I would not for the world they saw thee here.
Before I drew this gallant head of war,
Attending nature's law:
To KING OF FRANCE
Which I so lively acted with my tears
honour is rewarding my dependents. Moth, follow.
How shall we find the concord of this discord?
For the main soldier: whose quality, going on,
Be shrived and married. Here is for thy pains.
you, who, as I take it, have stolen his birds' nest.
Then, as you are as virtuous as fair,
And then I stole all courtesy from heaven,
And blood of your begetting.
But, by the grace of God, and Hume's advice,
'My daughter! O my ducats! O my daughter!
Have stood against the world; now lies he there.
But yet hear this: mistake me not; no life,
Shall thereby be the sweeter. Reason thus with life:
figure: I am better than thou art now; I am a fool,
Hie thee again:
I'll be with you, niece, by and by.
And this neglection of degree it is
Live, and beget a happy race of kings!
to second your attempt, and he shall fall between
the tribulation of Tower-hill, or the limbs of
Me to proclaim the truth; and I am come,
Then imitate the action of the tiger;
Where are my other men, monsieur? Farewell.
Who like a good and hardy soldier fought
And therefore, living hence, did give ourself
Exeunt
That take it on you at the first so roundly.
Wherein the king stands generally condemn'd.
Yet I will try the last. Before my body
For France, for France, for it is more than need.
For common justice, you're as pregnant in
Why, whose is it?
would send me word, he cut it to please himself:
assaults of affection.
easier to be played on than a pipe? Call me what
In such disdainful manner me to woo.
Hath dimm'd your infant morn to aged night.
His eye against the moon: in most strange postures
And go in peace, Humphrey, no less beloved
Thanks, gentle Romans: may I govern so,
As it rain'd kisses.
Woe's scene, world's shame, grave's due by life usurp'd,
despair, if they were not cherished by our virtues.
Of author's pen or actor's voice, but suited
May I with right and conscience make this claim?
Welcome is peace, if he on peace consist;
With humble and familiar courtesy,
Come on refresh'd, new-added, and encouraged;
I shall serve you, sir,
That I have had of thee!
I will bethink me: come again tomorrow.
Exeunt
When we have here her base and pillar by us.
Caesar, I bring thee word,
Commander of this hot malicious day:
with my excrement, with my mustachio; but, sweet
Collars of SS.
And dotage terms so.
O traitors and bawds, how earnestly are you set
As one relying on your lordship's will
How much is it?
By heaven, I will acquaint his majesty
subject's duty is the king's; but every subject's
Have we march'd on without impediment;
stocks for puddings he hath stolen, otherwise he had
Trimm'd up your praises with a princely tongue,
Is fall'n into thy ear! What false Italian,
The Pyrenean and the river Po,
No, not a whit: what! I have watch'd ere now
I'll be with thee betimes.
assure you, sir, I do assure.
soldier to cut his prisoner's throat. O, 'tis a
He is a good sprag memory. Farewell, Mistress Page.
Be it known, that we, the greatest, are misthought
And I unjustly too, must grant it you
[Aside]              One way I like this well;
It was. What sadness lengthens Romeo's hours?
Yet once again, to make us public sport,
Witness all sorrow, that I know thee well
Dost lack any money? I have a little money for thee.
I have a sonnet that will serve the turn
To show his teeth as white as whale's bone;
Heart's discontent and sour affliction
My bounty is as boundless as the sea,
Till they have fretted us a pair of graves
To make thee consul.
Nor sight of priests in holy vestments bleeding,
Sir, I am a gentleman that have spent much; my name is Brook.
So Antony loves.
Say, Voltimand, what from our brother Norway?
Sweet sir, you honour me.
on thee, I am a very villain. Come, and be hanged!
Try many, all good, serve truly, never
A place of potency and sway o' the state,
Being loose, unfirm, with digging up of graves,
Sit, Coriolanus; never shame to hear
He fires the proud tops of the eastern pines
And faster bound to Aaron's charming eyes
ANTIPHOLUS
Our content
Question, my lords, no further of the case,
Die neither mother, wife, nor England's queen!
Go, ye giddy goose.
[To EDMUND]  Let the drum strike, and prove my title thine.
O, O, O,
We shall be blest to do, if he remember
No, my good lord, my friends are in the north.
Of him that did not ask, but mock, bestow
the least, if the love of soldier can suffice,--
Being with his presence glutted, gorged and full.
It becomes thy oath full well,
filth as thou art. Thou hast most traitorously
Mine is, an't please your grace, against John
You minion, you, are these your customers?
And get you from our court.
By innocence I swear, and by my youth
Even just the sum that I do owe to you
in his jealousy till now.
The injuries that they themselves procure
He is all the mother's, from the top to toe.
From the dread summit of this chalky bourn.
Upon malicious bravery, dost thou come
The day almost itself professes yours,
Thou mine of bounty, how wouldst thou have paid
Knocking within
make another curtsy and say 'Father, as it please
Upon my life, she finds, although I cannot,
God bless the king!
Commend thy grievance to my holy prayers,
Is that temptation that doth goad us on
Caius Marcius was
My Lord of Westmoreland, and uncle Exeter,
Look, what thou want'st shall be sent after thee:
More villain thou. Well, push him out of doors;
Re-enter Servant
Mayor, farewell: thou dost but what thou mayst.
No, not for all the riches under heaven.
If you will not murder me for my love, let me be
Enter AGAMEMNON
Where it did mark, it took; from face to foot
Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty.
A crown it is that seldom kings enjoy.
When our deep plots do pall: and that should teach us
adorer, not her friend.
a tall ship lie buried, as they say, if my gossip
A guiltless death I die.
look,--do you call, sir, your occupation a mystery?
thy mother!' then asks Bohemia forgiveness; then
I cannot justify whom the law condemns.
This sudden mischief never could have fall'n.
Where you shall be an everlasting leiger:
Is my name Talbot? and am I your son?
Been publicly accused, so shall she have
Stain'd with the variation of each soil
drink; but I tell you, my lord fool, out of this
Made promise to the doctor. Now, thus it rests:
Let never day nor night unhallow'd pass,
Then shalt thou give me with thy kingly hand
Truly, I think they are.
I am sprited with a fool.
Of Timon man and all humanity!
As lively painted as the deed was done.
To whom in favour she shall give the day,
And when my uncle told me so, he wept,
O peers of England, shameful is this league!
To her unhappy brother Claudio?
Then go we near her, that her ear lose nothing
I rather of his absence make this use:
The article of your oath; which you shall never
And yet his punishment was cruel death.
Bearing the badge of faith, to prove them true?
Speak, Winchester; for boiling choler chokes
Either be gone before the watch be set,
By Dromio; but I think he brought it not.
Return him here again. Go with him, provost.
Chaste and immaculate in very thought;
Am I that name, Iago?
Bethink yourself wherein you may have offended
My parks, my walks, my manors that I had.
I from my mistress come to you in post;
The contrary doth make thee wonder'd at:
It is a matter of small consequence,
When the rash mood is on.
My conscience tells me you are innocent.
abhorred in my imagination it is! my gorge rims at
on me. Thou art violently carried away from grace:
How come these staggers on me?
steal cream.
And where two raging fires meet together
And unsuspected court her by herself.
beast! O strange! Every inordinate cup is
No matter: his heels have deserved it, in usurping
Thou losest here, a better where to find.
Whose high exploits and honourable deeds
Thus Kent, O princes, bids you all adieu;
Why, that's all one.
Having no other reason
In my corrupted blood. But I'll not chide thee;
That's something yet: Edgar I nothing am.
mother played false with a smith.
Enlarge the man committed yesterday,
so earnest
To deck our soldiers for these Irish wars.
I ever said we were i' the wrong when we banished
Thy wife and children's blood. For myself, son,
Sir Gilbert Talbot, Sir William Stanley;
Exit
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made;
With blue of heaven's own tinct. But my design,
Count wisdom as no member of the war,
If he be less, he's nothing; but he's more,
And that I see, in passages of proof,
I took him to be killed with a thunder-stroke. But
ne'er have denied his occasion so many talents.
Why, there's the privilege your beauty bears:
He says so, Tranio.
Then sing him home;
That, by killing of villains,
Peaseblossom.
least, he fought with; what wards, what blows, what
that,--hissing hot,--think of that, Master Brook.
I have been begging sixteen years in court,
Turn head, and stop pursuit; for coward dogs
not take pity of her, I am a villain; if I do not
I know, Iago,
These things seem small and undistinguishable,
I must be gone and live, or stay and die.
O, pardon me: 'twill do me good to walk.
Spare not for the cost.
But ere they came,--O, let me say no more!
From her inaidible estate; I say we must not
Alencon, Reignier, compass him about,
And so they shall.
To love and honour Henry as her lord.
Ay, good my lord; for purposely therefore
names, your ages, of what having, breeding, and any
Come thy ways, Signior Fabian.
Exit
reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal
Proclaims him king, and many fly to him:
No; though thou call'st thyself a hotter name
I sought the purchase of a glorious beauty.
Raising his voice
And have install'd me in the diadem:
something. But say, sir, is it dinner-time?
Re-enter ARVIRAGUS, with IMOGEN, as dead, bearing her in his arms
Yonder, sir, he walks.
I did, my lord;
Thy lands and all things that thou dost call thine
But stand against us like an enemy.
'As true as Troilus' shall crown up the verse,
What are you, sir?
thy husband were dead: I'll speak it before the
Why good fellow,
Into a bush: under which bush's shade
Ay, if his enemy deliver it:
His way to Dover.
I am content you shall entreat me stay;
And, being help'd, inhabits there.
We must awake endavour for defence;
No?
brief and the tedious of it; and he's of a most
Had been the regent there instead of me,
Which you will wonder at.
Now, welcome, Kate: and bear me witness all,
Beside five hundred prisoners of esteem,
But of the finer natures? by some severals
were to say more than I know. That he is old, the
their services; and now my whole charge consists of
Who, hearing of our Marcius' banishment,
That play'st so subtly with a king's repose;
Henceforward do your messages yourself.
Indeed? I heard it not: then it draws near the season
Just, you say well; so would I have said.
sir, you know not which way you shall go.
should speak truth of it: here it is, and all that
own world, and you might quickly make it right.
Will not permit mine eyes once to behold
Pray, let us follow 'em.
Enter HYMEN, ROSALIND, and CELIA
But give your pigeons to the emperor:
Or those that with the fineness of their souls
Then wherefore dost thou hope he is not shipp'd?
And with a gad of steel will write these words,
To it, boy! Marcus, loose when I bid.
put me into this apparel.
Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike
Well then I know thee: what shall I know of thee?
That, when we have found the king,--in which your pain
To give mine enemy a lasting wink;
And my good Lord of Worcester will set forth
Without the peril of the Athenian law.
Marry, the Lord protect him, for he's a good man!
Whose weak untimber'd sides but even now
Though ne'er so cunningly you smother it.
When were you wont to be so full of songs, sirrah?
Farewell, pretty lady: you must hold the credit of
Which makes me think that this Antonio,
Prizes the virtue that appears in Cassio,
'Solus,' egregious dog? O viper vile!
Now, afore God, I am so vexed, that every part about
Much about cock-shut time, from troop to troop
And for three months.
And must for aye consort with black-brow'd night.
Which darest not, no, nor canst not rule a traitor.
The council shall know this.
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour:
Is it not too far gone? 'Tis time to part them.
They vanish'd strangely.
Death may usurp on nature many hours,
to-morrow, I'll give him his payment: if ever he go
converse with a dumb-show? How oddly he is suited!
I would you were as I would have you be!
It must not be with this.
though I cannot remember what I did when you made me
Why, my lord?
A parley sounded
Nurse, where's my daughter? call her forth to me.
I am the unhappy subject of these quarrels.
That stand'st between her father's ground and mine!
It may be his enemy is a gentleman of great sort,
Who is the first that doth prefer himself?
And I but dream'd it. As you were past all shame,--
Yet I was mortally brought forth, and am
To make some good, but others to exceed;
And yet, to satisfy this good old man,
But this one word, whether thy tale be true.
I for a Clarence weep, so doth not she:
Himself! Alas, poor Troilus! I would he were.
Be it so she; will not here before your grace
Our chimneys were blown down; and, as they say,
poll; half of the which dare not shake snow from off
Cesario, you are like to be much advanced: he hath
I now begin with grief and shame to utter:
If thou be'st death, I'll give thee England's treasure,
The plain-song cuckoo gray,
Who is already sick and pale with grief,
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
Talk you of killing?
Tell me, heavenly bow,
The oldest hath borne most: we that are young
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
Which thou shalt thereby reap is such a name,
He shall not need it, if he have his own.
Good, good: the justice of it pleases: very good.
As my young mistress' dog. Now, my sick fool Roderigo,
Shall die a beggar. Ink and paper, Charmian.
Like one that comes here to besiege his court,
Well said, Hermione.
Doting like me and like me banished,
consent with both that we may enjoy each other: it
into London under the form of a soldier. And such
And bear his courses to be ordered
I should be arguing still upon that doubt:
Fie, cousin Percy! how you cross my father!
Is but a preface of her worthy praise;
Fear not, sweet wench, they shall not touch
'Tis not well mended so, it is but botch'd;
With both the humours, I:
Your presence makes us rich, most noble lord.
She's but the sign and semblance of her honour.
That fill his ears with such dissentious rumours.
Pointing to KING LEAR
But fare thee well; thou art a gallant youth:
And counsel him to fight against his passion.
The carriage of his chafe.
Of that which hath so faithfully been paid.
unhappy brains for drinking: I could well wish
To think I can be undiscernible,
And her attainture will be Humphrey's fall:
That Lady Margaret do vouchsafe to come
crumbs. A stoup of wine, Maria!
With age and altering rheums? can he speak? hear?
Come, Suffolk, I must waft thee to thy death.
Than that of common sons.
Enter Outlaws with SILVIA
I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk;
his dagger.
Consider, lords, he is the next of blood,
You thus have publish'd me! Gentle my lord,
And true she is, as she hath proved herself,
Ay, there's the question; but I say, 'tis true:
Good ground, be pitiful and hurt me not!
Now, as you are a Roman, tell me true.
seems her affections have their full bent. Love me!
No tidings of him?
O, coward that I am, to live so long,
From France to England. Never such a power
That, being brought into the open air,
Thy beauty hath made me effeminate
The king has done you wrong: but, hush, 'tis so.
Cannot vouchsafe this burthen,'tis too weak
Not so young, sir, to love a woman for singing, nor
And, to remember what he does,
The street should see as she walk'd overhead.
If I do lie and do
Be ruled by him, Lord Ajax.
twinkled on my bastardizing. Edgar--
But sun it is not, when you say it is not;
Flourish
What more fearful?
O, had the gods done so, I had not now
The middle of humanity thou never knewest, but the
I pray thee, Buckingham, go and meet him,
I will dismount, and by the waggon-wheel
That an invisible instinct should frame them
'Faith, I perceive our masters may throw their caps
His eye begets occasion for his wit;
Have by the very cunning of the scene
I perceive, sir, by the general's looks, we shall be
Think'st thou the fiery fever will go out
One friend to take his fortune by the arm,
Sirrah, bring Barnardine hither.
Have mercy, Jesu!--Soft! I did but dream.
How needless was it then to ask the question!
Seeking a way and straying from the way;
By heaven, I saw my handkerchief in's hand.
Les doigts? ma foi, j'oublie les doigts; mais je me
That which he is, new o'er: and he is one
Their liberties; make them of no more voice
How will he scorn! how will he spend his wit!
Exeunt other Servants
Ay, good fool.
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
O, come, let us remove:
deceived me. How melancholies I am! I will knog
Stealing and giving odour! Enough; no more:
How was this seal'd?
Either of you to be the other's end.
The poor mechanic porters crowding in
That time,--O times!--
And then I'll come and be thy waggoner,
[Aside]  O, give ye good even! here's a million of manners.
And, were there sense in his idolatry,
And most opportune to our need I have
And with a sudden reinforcement struck
Who's there?
never had triumph'd upon a Scot.
Was in the wreck; and, but he's something stain'd
I'll board him presently.
Is not his heir a well-deserving son?
But soon that war had end, and the time's state
By heaven, I will ne'er come in your bed
rhyme and reason, that they were fairies. See now
How! poor? look upon his face; what call you rich?
Then like a Roman bear the truth I tell:
Was it discretion, lords, to let this man,
O, then, I see, you will part but with light gifts;
SCENE III. A room in LEONTES' palace.
Of mercy, if thou didst this deed of death,
O Lord, sir! Nay, put me to't, I warrant you.
You should have fear'd false times when you did feast:
Show'd mastership in floating; fortune's blows,
Good morrow to you. Here the street is narrow:
Both are my kinsmen, and I love them both:
I'll end my exhortation after dinner.
Must keep aloof from strict arbitrement,
This day, great duke, she shut the doors upon me,
Which by my Lord of Winchester we mean
O, negligent and heedless discipline!
For you shall hop without my custom, sir:
Swear by my sword.
book, she loves you. Have not your worship a wart
And twice as much, whate'er thou offer'st next.
her shoe, which is baser, guided by her foot, which
Hubert shall be your man, attend on you
Enter EXTON, with persons bearing a coffin
And he's at some hard point. Speak, man: thy tongue
Things that are past are done with me. 'Tis thus:
Three months this youth hath tended upon me;
Our lands, our lives and all are Bolingbroke's,
could recover the shore, five and thirty leagues off
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up;
That ever made eye swerve, had force and knowledge
Allow obedience, if yourselves are old,
They love me well; yet I have much to do
With honour, as in war, since that to both
Four milk-white horses, trapp'd in silver.
With untired spirits and formal constancy:
This house, these servants and this same myself
I am a lamb: but if you brave the Moor,
He'll strike, and quickly too: he's dead and rotten.
Exeunt
O heresy in fair, fit for these days!
Fled to England!
Sir Toby Belch! how now, Sir Toby Belch!
Pardon, sir; error: he is not quantity enough for
Caesar and he are greater friends than ever.
I doubt not of your wisdom.
As like enough it will--I'ld have it copied:
And Julia herself did give it me;
For the sea's worth. But, look! what lights come yond?
I am much deceived but I remember the style.
Keep your word, Phebe, that you'll marry me,
We'll fight with him to-night.
And witch sweet ladies with my words and looks.
Soothsayer!
That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes,
forgotten what the inside of a church is made of, I
And Cydnus swell'd above the banks, or for
The queen with all the northern earls and lords
Came in strong rescue. Speak, thy father's care,
Come, my Marina.
Thou canst not fear us, Pompey, with thy sails;
The way twice o'er.
These knights unto their several lodgings!
Enter FORTINBRAS, the English Ambassadors, and others
I dreamt my master and another fought,
motley-minded gentleman that I have so often met in
One that ne'er dream'd a joy beyond his pleasure;
Sir, we were talking that our garments seem now
O, what a beast was I to chide at him!
Since Pompey's feast, as Menas says, is troubled
do fructify in us more than he.
But by degree, stand in authentic place?
If the enemy is an ass and a fool and a prating
the borrowed veil of modesty from the so seeming
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
If any thing that's civil, speak; if savage,
gown; I am withered like an old apple-john. Well,
Hang her, witch!
It is now apparent?
To bring this matter to the wished end.
I am no less in blood than thou art, Edmund;
With fingers long, small, white as milk;
Give me thy hand: Come.
knew not what to take and what to leave, ha?
You cannot guess who caused your father's death.
It cannot be, an if thou wert his mother.
My haste may not admit it;
And with that blood will make 'em one day groan for't.
That I regard it not.
How accompanied?
Exeunt with the body
Sennet. Enter AGAMEMNON, NESTOR, ULYSSES, MENELAUS, and others
You are such a woman! one knows not at what ward you
By this at Dunsmore, marching hitherward.
He is full of valour as of kindness;
Ravish our daughters?
conceived against your son, there is no fitter
three umpires in this matter, as I understand; that
He would unhorse the lustiest challenger.
His daughter, and the heir of's kingdom, whom
Of quick, cross lightning? to watch--poor perdu!--
I warrant I love you more than you do me.
And farewell goes out sighing. O, let not
attain to! If thou wert the lion, the fox would
[Within]  She comes to you.
Their form confounded makes most form in mirth,
To be shame's scorn and subject of mischance!
Give him as much as will make him a royal man, and
What, makest thou me a dullard in this act?
More than my all is nothing: nor my prayers
Enchanting all that you put in.
Before sunrising, lest his son George fall
A moderate table.
Show me this piece. I am joyful of your sights.
Enter ALCIBIADES, with drum and fife, in warlike manner; PHRYNIA and TIMANDRA
Exit Doctor
By means whereof the towns each day revolted.
To whom, my lord?
and there is an end.
Which princes, would they, may not disannul,
You take the sum and substance that I have.
draw, you whoreson cullionly barber-monger, draw.
Posterity, await for wretched years,
Against these giddy loose suggestions:
You, ladies, you, whose gentle hearts do fear
She was often cited by them, but appear'd not:
accusation.
With no less terror than the elements
So thrive I, as I truly swear the like!
Marry, that with no man here he is offended;
The least of you shall share his part thereof.
'Item, If any man be seen to talk with a woman
this husband, which, you say, must charge his horns
I shall know, sir, when I have done it.
Here's Romeo's man; we found him in the churchyard.
art hanged. This is to Lord Timon; this to
replenished; he is only an animal, only sensible in
Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny;
For the wide world's revenue.
Had ever scar for.
'What an if you do?'
I have travell'd but two hours.
less than truth, they are villains and the sons of darkness.
I will resist such entertainment till
Strike up our drums, to find this danger out.
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
Wherein, they say, you shine: your sum of parts
him.
How now! why start'st thou? what, doth
She's a stranger now again.
hotly call'd for;
Most rare.
Grounded upon no other argument
Dear father, soul and substance of us all,--
MARINA sings
Alack, why am I sent for to a king,
and I'll give him my horse, grey Capilet.
so he then took her to be, who began to be much
counsellor; if you can command these elements to
To bear our fortunes in our own strong arms,
[Aside]
Nay, you must forget that.
ancients, corporals, lieutenants, gentlemen of
We took him setting of boys' copies.
This was your motive
Towards Ludlow then, for we'll not stay behind.
Sleeping or waking? mad or well-advised?
And though I have for barbarism spoke more
too disputable for my company: I think of as many
To SILVIUS
Thinking his prattle to be tedious;
division of the kingdom, it appears not which of
Worthy Othello, I am hurt to danger:
Then never man was true.
And find no cheque? Let us, my liege, to arms:
As in this glorious and well-foughten field
Exeunt
Among the bands--may drive us to a render
The duke yet lives that Henry shall depose;
Richard of York! how fares our loving brother?
O, hold me not with silence over-long!
Wilt thou be made a man out of my vice?
has not past three or four hairs on his chin,--
You are old enough now, and yet, methinks, you lose.
And the offender's life lies in the mercy
Although you break it when your pleasure serves.
Horns whelk'd and waved like the enridged sea:
And, as you answer, I do know the scope
One honest man--mistake me not--but one;
I'm lost in it, my lord. But let him come;
He beckons with his hand and smiles on me.
Whose manners still our tardy apish nation
And this is he that did the Tiger board,
That he hath given away! Now, by my life,
Too subtle-potent, tuned too sharp in sweetness,
Well, happiness to their sheets! Come, lieutenant, I
And deal in her command without her power.
My life itself, and the best heart of it,
Exit
In different beds of lust; and never learn'd
Especially he hath incurred the everlasting
O you most potent gods! what's here? a corse!
Let me persuade you take a better course.
to lie in mine own throat.
No elder than a boy!
Their natures and preformed faculties
The honour is sacred which he talks on now,
Never believe it:
I have o'ershot myself to tell you of it:
Though thanks to all, must I select
And I thus humble ever.
So York may overlook the town of York.
Be of good cheer: mother, how fares your grace?
To beat assailing death from his weak legions:
Re-enter BERTRAM
good mounsieur, have a care the honey-bag break not;
That talk'd of her, have talk'd amiss of her:
To the forfended place?
Now will I question Cassio of Bianca,
blessing I am at him upon my knees every morning and
more wit than he, to take a fault upon me that he did,
But thou the king. Woe doth the heavier sit,
Is not by much so wholesome-profitable
SCENE I. Paris. A hall of state.
the company thou keepest: for, Harry, now I do not
That slaves your ordinance, that will not see
For this from stiller seats we came,
And, as he stoop'd again to take it up,
To the mines! tell you the duke, it is not so good
Dare you presume to harbour wanton lines?
Even when the navel of the state was touch'd,
Fie, doff this habit, shame to your estate,
Or in my life what comfort, when I am
At Pentapolis the fair Thaisa.
To do him justice and revenge on you.
You have not call'd me so, nor have you cause.
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune:
Doth noise abroad, Navarre hath made a vow,
Marry, heaven forbid!
I am a soldier and now bound to France.
Exit
Well; the matter?
O, we have made a vow to study, lords,
Is slander to your royal dignity.
Malevolent to you in all aspects;
The let-alone lies not in your good will.
my bones: I shall not fear fly-blowing.
By all the gods that Romans bow before,
Is yet but unfelt thanks, which more enrich'd
Thou monstrous slanderer of heaven and earth!
front his revenges with the easy groans of old
For now we owe allegiance unto Henry.
by your leave, good mistress.
That every day under his household roof
Had I but said, I would have kept my word,
That little thought, when she set footing here,
Go, hie thee, hie thee from this slaughter-house,
Recall not what we give, and therein may
For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
Her life is only safest in her birth.
Whose influence is begot of that loose grace
No more but that I know the more one sickens the
In moral paradise of such sweet flesh?
I have done my work in, friends: O, make an end
It was the friar of orders grey,
Till you have done your business in the city:
How canst thou make me satisfaction?
you are--I cannot call you Lycurguses--if the drink
Cousin of Buckingham, a word with you.
But you must not now slumber in it.
With tomboys hired with that self-exhibition
Enter GLOUCESTER and EDMUND
With golden cherubins is fretted: her andirons--
Edmund Mortimer, My lord of York and Owen Glendower?
If I have too austerely punish'd you,
And then, sir, does he this--he does--what was I
So, now uncape.
You be convey'd to the Tower a prisoner;
A grave: come, arm him. Boy, he is preferr'd
Whereby my son is disinherited.
Are smother'd up, leads fill'd, and ridges horsed
By me obey'd!
Rememberest thou any that have died on't?
I have with such provision in mine art
I thank your majesty, and her, my lord:
At what it did so freely? From this time
Of hurlyburly innovation:
And sure, unless you send some present help,
A yielding 'gainst some reason in my breast
ANTIPHOLUS
'Couple a gorge!'
At our enlargement what are thy due fees?
Even she.
Exit ROMEO
The fugitive Parthians follow; spur through Media,
What is the matter?
My lord--
A lover, that kills himself most gallant for love.
light; and convey what I will set down to my lady:
Contrived by art and baleful sorcery.
Is't possible you will away to-night?
Nay, after that, consume away in rust
My lord, this is my daughter here asleep;
Entreat you to your wonted furtherance?
The devil to his fellow and delight
Each way, to better yours.
Ay, by my faith, they shall not be changed yet.
But think you, lords, that Clifford fled with them?
time this two and thirty years; God reward me for
English; wilt thou have me?
Let have needful, but not lavish, means;
I would not be a Roman, of all nations; I had as
Once, if he do require our voices, we ought not to deny him.
Now I'll tell you without asking: my master is the
The sorrow that delivers us thus changed
Mark Antony,--
Well, say. Peace, ho!
Alla stoccata carries it away.
And let thy blows, doubly redoubled,
Slandering a prince deserves it.
he hath the gift of a coward to allay the gust he
Is an arm'd knight that's conquer'd by a lady;
I am content, so thou wilt have it so.
Have I to-night fluster'd with flowing cups,
were to put good meat into an unclean dish.
Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in,
Rare Egyptian!
It is not good to cross him; give him way.
Happily met, my lady and my wife!
but a kind of hard conscience, to offer to counsel
Is this the prince? is this the prince's brother?
Fear not thy sons; they shall do well enough.
The best news is, that we have safely found
Come, therefore, let us fly while we may fly:
Yea, on his part I'll empty all these veins,
He hath a stern look, but a gentle heart:
And he, and more
Loves woman for, besides that hook of wiving,
What was that Hopkins?
Now here a period of tumultuous broils.
What, are men mad? Hath nature given them eyes
Since this same wayward girl is so reclaim'd.
I was of late as petty to his ends
Appear in your impediment. For the dearth,
Ruthful to hear, yet piteously perform'd:
Hath come so near creation? Move these eyes?
Though I condemn not, yet, under pardon,
And, sweet sprites, the burthen bear.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
Enter Troilus's Boy
SCENE III. The forest.
If Warwick take us we are sure to die.
My worthy Cawdor!
And drive away the vulgar from the streets:
If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,
Tell me, Othello: I wonder in my soul,
What hour now?
But since you teach me how to flatter you,
Not of a woman's tenderness to be,
Importeth thee to know, this bears.
qualified in; and the best of me is diligence.
Thus ornament is but the guiled shore
I do fear, too dreadful:
With pay and thanks, and let's away to London
That seem'd in eating him to hold him up,
That our beat water brought by conduits hither;
For they are harsh, untuneable and bad.
I may say so, when I please.
on brambles, all, forsooth, deifying the name of
pray you, what thinks he of our estate?
For things are often spoke and seldom meant:
Are you my wife and will not call me husband?
Thus contumeliously should break the peace!
Where is kind Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey?
And, as I further have to understand,
holiday foolery: if we walk not in the trodden
That ever was survey'd by English eye,
What may she not? She may, yea, marry, may she--
And make two pasties of your shameful heads,
The good patricians must be visited;
Brutus is ta'en, Brutus is ta'en, my lord.
fantastical; too, too vain, too too vain: but we
By desperate appliance are relieved,
Bless you, my fortunate lady!
Dolour comes to him, indeed: you
again: but, as they say to hear music the general
Re-enter TROILUS
Arms, take your last embrace! and, lips, O you
I dream'd a dream to-night.
And father of that chaste dishonour'd dame,
All the land knows that:
Within their chiefest temple I'll erect
SCENE V. Fields without the town.
Profit again should hardly draw me here.
I thought thou hadst been resolute.
The truth is then most done not doing it:
For well we know, no hand of blood and bone
Take any shape but that, and my firm nerves
Patroclus kisses you.
matter merrily set down, or a very pleasant thing
Well met, Corporal Nym.
If I name thee.
And still to nose the offence.
Exeunt
Well, I will muse no further. Master Fenton,
Come, go with us; speak fair: you may salve so,
Bid Gloucester think of this, and he will weep.
It boots not to resist both wind and tide.
He makes important: possess'd he is with greatness,
That like a football you do spurn me thus?
The lethargy must have his quiet course:
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
The virtue of your eye must break my oath.
These four will change habits, and present the other five.
nothing neither.
Gives her fame which never dies.
Enter his thoughts, save such as do revolve
You are in the state of grace.
nobody can match.
A most outrageous fit of madness took him;
come; who you are and what you would are out of my
All, all, cry shame against me, yet I'll speak.
Save him from danger, do him love and honour,
Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
than a monkey: I will weep for nothing, like Diana
'Swounds, I should take it: for it cannot be
No kin no love, no blood, no soul so near me
Hath drops too few to wash her clean again
In mine own person; holp to reap the fame
And drown'd.
This but begins the woe, others must end.
But such is the infection of the time,
I would it were my fault to sleep so soundly.
Ay, my lord,
Whiles yet my soldiers are in my command;
That blood already, like the pelican,
My silence and my cloudy melancholy,
Are you full of them?
To suck, to suck, the very blood to suck!
Some to discover islands far away;
Discipled of the bravest: he lasted long;
A private man in Athens: this for him.
That age, ache, penury and imprisonment
A noble servant to them; but he could not
O, wither'd is the garland of the war,
And there I'll rest, as after much turmoil
Your followers I will whisper to the business,
And, being done, thus Wall away doth go.
And dare me to the desert with thy sword;
I know she is come to pray for your foul sin.
To seal her father's eyes up close as oak-
O Lord, sir! Thick, thick, spare not me.
All kinds of sores and shames on my bare head.
Believe me, no: I thank my fortune for it,
As full of sorrows as the sea of sands,
To FABIAN
The king shall be contented: must he lose
I look down towards his feet; but that's a fable.
more money than I'll speak of.
That fools should be so deep-contemplative,
Nor I, my lord.
Upon my head?
Which mates him first that first intends deceit.
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
Sir, I do invite you too; you shall not
Exit
Where England?
Hunting thee hence with hunt's-up to the day,
villain, he's bound by the indenture of his oath to
Of drops that sacred pity hath engender'd:
Turn, hell-hound, turn!
Something about, a little from the right,
Shall govern England.'
I believe thee; for I think thou never wast where
To me a break-neck. Happy star, reign now!
and in these degrees have they made a pair of stairs
My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou rememberest
How say you, then; would heart of man once think it?
The garter, blemish'd, pawn'd his knightly virtue;
Enter a Messenger
And princely care foreseeing those fell mischiefs
Longer for him to make his rest.
What trumpet is that same?
Damnable both-sides rogue!
When think you that the sword goes up again?
a woodcock too?
He asks of you, that never used to beg.
And I proclaim'd a coward through the world!
And stand indebted, over and above,
Allow their officers and are content
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
I fear, too many curses on their beads
Let some o' the guard be ready there.
What! shall we curse the planets of mishap
What's that?
They that my trust must grow to, live not here:
And therefore, setting all this chat aside,
a man: surely I think you have charms, la; yes, in truth.
[Aside]        'Twere false, if I should speak it;
and let your flesh and blood obey it.
Tune a deploring dump: the night's dead silence
Than Bolingbroke's return to England;
Twice being  [by the people chosen]  censor,
From those you sent to the oracle are come
What thou seest when thou dost wake,
And of his friends there, it is lots to blanks,
Think you in your soul the Count Claudio hath wronged Hero?
What shall some see?
Are we all met?
not you chiefly belong to my heart? I have told
Because that I am little, like an ape,
By heaven, I will not do thee so much ease.
odours on you!
They'll open of themselves.
With tearful eyes add water to the sea
By your eyes' anguish.
I' faith, if he be not rotten before he die--as we
you, coz; marry, this, coz: there is, as 'twere, a
cities, mutinies; in countries, discord; in
To kiss in private?
And case thy reputation in thy tent;
Of feather'd Cupid seal with wanton dullness
As shore of rock. Attend. This holy fox,
It fits us then to be as provident
Hang him, truant! there's no true drop of blood in
Brave thee! ay, by the best blood that ever was
SCENE I. London. A street.
Hast moved us: what seest thou in our looks?
As I have loved this proud disdainful haggard.
Which oft infects the wisest: these, my lord,
A proper title of a peace; and purchased
That fears his fellowship to die with us.
She is the hopeful lady of my earth:
I tell thee, Pole, when in the city Tours
no, not for dwelling where you do: if I do, Pompey,
O, forget
Pray you, let's have no words of this; but when they
The greatest man in England but the king.
And let the soul forth that adoreth thee,
Towards him I made, but he was ware of me
Leaving our rankness and irregular course,
mocked at my gains, scorned my nation, thwarted my
More than in women commonly is seen,
In a true hate, to pray they have their will:
Reignier of France, I give thee kingly thanks,
How if the kiss be denied?
Hast thou that holy feeling in thy soul,
Enter JULIET
As best befits her wounded reputation,
But the law will not allow it, Pompey; nor it shall
We came to visit you, and purpose now
Exit DUKE
Each putter-out of five for one will bring us
[To HELENA]  The best wishes that can be forged in
Exit Romeo
Enter ERPINGHAM
My child is yet a stranger in the world;
According to their firm proposed natures.
Is now dishonoured by this new marriage.
Arise to let him in: he is call'd up.
No, 'tis impossible he should escape,
To the last article: my lord shall never rest;
Shame and eternal shame, nothing but shame!
belly, ere I should come by a fire to thaw me: but
I'll have my brains ta'en out and buttered, and give
And bring him up to liking.
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
And yet go current from suspicion!
Which live like venom where no venom else
I come from Lady Juliet.
And I--God bless the mark!--his Moorship's ancient.
Tell me thou art my son Antipholus.
If I were covetous, ambitious or perverse,
For thou dost fear the soft and tender fork
are so reasonable, for there is not one among them
Yes, thou spokest well of me.
I know him: a' was a botcher's 'prentice in Paris,
Marcus, even thou hast struck upon my crest,
Call it not patience, Gaunt; it is despair:
From top to toe?
Well, I have told you enough of this: for my part,
Do.
Our whole city is much bound to him.
If I should say, I saw such islanders--
Alas, what danger will it be to us,
Rough-hew them how we will,--
No point, quoth I; my servant straight was mute.
A most singular and choice epithet.
Wilt take thy chance with me? I will not say
They fight
An angel is like you, Kate, and you are like an angel.
face, a reverend carriage, a slow tongue, in the
Anon, from thy insulting tyranny,
Honour, health, and compassion to the senate!
This pretty lad will prove our country's bliss.
before the report come. If there be breadth enough
His tongue, all impatient to speak and not see,
And he supposes me travell'd to Poland;
Good madam, keep yourself within yourself:
danced before the king; and not the worst of the
Tyrrel, I mean those bastards in the Tower.
The offices of nature, bond of childhood,
Neighbour, well met: whither away so fast?
More homely than thy state. For thee, fond boy,
It comes in charity to thee: for all thy living
If your grace
They are a sweet society of fair ones.
How terrible in constant resolution,
Nothing ill come near thee!
Tongue, lose thy light;
Hence, vile instrument!
I do begin to perceive that I am made an ass.
The Cardinal of Winchester forbids:
If you have told Diana's altar true,
How does your honour for this many a day?
If the springe hold, the cock's mine.
Thou drunken slave, I sent thee for a rope;
If thou art she, tell me where is that son
The revellers are entering, brother: make good room.
Burst smilingly.
you thus get my wife into corners.
You heard her say herself, it was not I.
And fear'st to die? famine is in thy cheeks,
And with an accent tuned in selfsame key
When he was brought again to the bar, to hear
Ye all which it inherit, shall dissolve
To fright them hence with that dread penalty.
The old priest of Saint Luke's church is at your
The middle centre of this cursed town.
Farewell, my masters; to my task will I;
Accursed tower! accursed fatal hand
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me:
Thou shalt be master, Tranio, in my stead,
Which by my knowledge found, the sinful father
Draws a knife
Not as a brother.
What said Northumberland as touching Richmond?
I am hush'd until our city be a-fire,
Fool goes in
Some upright justicer! Thou, king, send out
Dear, trouble not yourself: the morn is cold.
Over the glittering helmet of my foe!
Worse than tears drown: beseech you all, my lords,
Hush! here comes Antony.
Banish us both and send the king with me.
Believe me, king of shadows, I mistook.
[First nodding]  Ay.
With over-weather'd ribs and ragged sails,
So dissolute a crew.
Get fire and meat for these poor men:
At the sixth hour of morn, at noon, at midnight,
The Dauphin hath prevail'd beyond the seas;
like the horse; with a linen stock on one leg and a
Enrich the time to come with smooth-faced peace,
Enter a Messenger
He cannot but with measure fit the honours
Which is his only.
Of your soft cheveril conscience would receive,
To stoop in such a case.
Enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS
Some trumpet summon hither to the walls
I hope not; I had as lief bear so much lead.
beard, or your French-crown-colour beard, your
To dash it like a Christmas comedy:
O, train me not, sweet mermaid, with thy note,
Hold thy whore, Grecian!--now for thy whore,
Fetch me a better answer.
put fire in your heart and brimstone in your liver.
As of a knight well-spoken, neat and fine;
With honour of his birthright to the crown.
How, sir! are you in earnest then, my lord?
Friends of my soul, you twain
express and admirable! in action how like an angel!
And, being protector, stayed the soldiers' pay;
And to the world and awkward casualties
Lord Bassianus lies embrewed here,
Must be as boisterously maintain'd as gain'd;
Stand all apart,
What you have said, and show yourselves true Romans.
To triumph, like an Amazonian trull,
But yet I love my country, and am not
How thou lovest us, show in our brother's welcome;
DON
'Item: She can wash and scour.'
Go seek the traitor Gloucester,
One of these is true:
Now, this no more dishonours you at all
Still have I borne it with a patient shrug,
Alencon, Brabant, Bar, and Burgundy;
That even her art sisters the natural roses;
Nor will not. Come, bring me unto my chance.
Did he not, contrary to form of law,
This Philoten contends in skill
Had I three ears, I'ld hear thee.
The bigger bulk it shows. Hence, bashful cunning!
To Lewis the emperor, and Lewis the son
I swear to do this, though a present death
carriage, for he carried the town-gates on his back
Away, boy, from the troops, and save thyself;
your grace, that he keep his vow and his oath: if
Art not one?
How use doth breed a habit in a man!
Youngling, thou canst not love so dear as I.
So hangs, and lolls, and weeps upon me; so hales,
Hold, for your lives!
In all his own desires; nay, let him choose
Though all the world's vastidity you had,
For, as thou urgest justice, be assured
Having bought love with such a bloody spoil.
But, my lord cardinal, and you, my Lord of Suffolk,
Ay, sir; to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
Not so; but yet so false that he grieves my very
A gentle cousin, were it light enough.
Not to be weary with you, he's in prison.
The present power of life, but in short time
Enter MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE
And shall I stand, and thou sit in my throne?
Well, good night.
Of my condition!
commend me to thy honourable virtuous lord, my very
So slight, unworthy and ridiculous,
So hung upon with love, so fortunate,
Take my prayers with you.
I saw no man use you a pleasure; if I had, my weapon
invisible soul,--
Yourself, renowned prince, then stood as fair
In peace what each of them by the other lose,
Come, bid me do any thing for thee.
South from the mighty power of the king.
Good day, good day.
mulled, deaf, sleepy, insensible; a getter of more
nothing undone that may fully discover him their
Go forward.
But who comes here? the new-deliver'd Hastings?
As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.
Allegiance in them; their curses now
Wilt thou undo the worth thou art unpaid for,
Why then to-night
Wait you on him, I charge you, as becomes,
I, that have neither pity, love, nor fear.
And not your knowledge, your personal pain, but even
Prithee, peace.
Even since you left it. Doth not my wit become me rarely?
And think it not the worst of an your fortunes
Decius, go tell them Caesar will not come.
At your important letters,--this ill day
What, durst not tempt him!
But that thy brothers beat aside the point.
His leg is but so so; and yet 'tis well:
I saw young Harry, with his beaver on,
It is the curse of kings to be attended
die. I have letters that my son will be here
base-string of humility. Sirrah, I am sworn brother
Words pay no debts, give her deeds: but she'll
Well, bear you well in this new spring of time,
Without our special wonder? You make me strange
fools in hand?
Who put unluckily into this bay
I will have nothing else but only this;
For living idly here in pomp and ease,
Hath a sharp edge: it's long and, 't may be said,
Thy lips are warm.
O Lord, I must laugh!
Of liegers for her sweet, and which she after,
To look that way thou wert.
have been often bound for no less than my life.
Be patient yet.
Me of my lawful pleasure she restrain'd
He made confession of you,
Thy state of law is bondslave to the law; And thou--
I shall remain your debtor.
Since thou wert king--as who is king but thou?--
Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings;
The trumpet sounds retreat; the day is ours.
Thou, brother Montague, in Buckingham,
cannot come out on's grave.
And to procure safe-conduct from Agamemnon.
And lessen'd be that small, God, I beseech thee!
My lord, she's not paced yet: you must take some
star, or at an earthquake, 'twould mend the lottery
His friend that dips in the same dish? for, in
For that he knew you, might reproach your life
Quarrel no more, but be prepared to know
Lower! hark, again.
A forted residence 'gainst the tooth of time
But how or in what place I do not know.
Didst undertake it? Why hast thou abused
If you will bless me, sir, and give me leave,
I heard you say that you had rather refuse
If you desire the spleen, and will laugh yourself
Of one I danced withal.
I have said too much unto a heart of stone
Crying confusion.
Enter, with drum and colours, ALBANY, GONERIL, and Soldiers
What then became of them I cannot tell
And that which looks like pride is courtesy.
Those,--for their parents were exceeding poor,--
My heart and hands thou hast at once subdued.
she'll fit it.
fie, fie! pah, pah! Give me an ounce of civet,
His head from him: I'll throw't into the creek
Well, sir.
Faith, I can tell her age unto an hour.
Resolved for flight. Now were I happy, if
How now, young man! mean'st thou to fight to-day?
What stature is she of?
What's there?
Thou disease of a friend, and not himself!
You sent me to the bay, sir, for a bark.
And give it to this fellow. Keep it, fellow;
And hear your mother's lamentation!
Then old and fond of issue, took such sorrow
sorry that you are paid too much; purse and brain
The childing autumn, angry winter, change
Moe than you rob: take wealth and lives together;
ACT II
Exeunt
Our purposes God justly hath discover'd;
company; and the half shirt is two napkins tacked
Vicious, ungentle, foolish, blunt, unkind;
of my knowledge, insomuch I say I know you are;
At whose approach, ghosts, wandering here and there,
When thou wakest, it is thy dear:
And bade him follow; so indeed he did.
When we have mark'd with blood those sleepy two
'Tis not a visitation framed, but forced
of it: he came of an errand to me from Parson Hugh.
Embracing him
This tempest will not give me leave to ponder
What meanest thou by that? mend me, thou saucy fellow!
Out of the Duke of Buckingham.
night-raven, come what plague could have come after
possible for me to say I loved nothing so well as
In fair Bohemia, and remember well,
They say King John sore sick hath left the field.
And doctors learn'd: first I began in private
[Aside]  Wormwood, wormwood.
Quiet thy cudgel; thou dost see I eat.
appoint her to look out at her lady's chamber window.
For many carriages he hath dispatch'd
and I will have more time to prepare me, or they
with us? we have sport in hand.
To hide thee from prevention.
First trumpet
Men for their sons, wives for their husbands,
Heat me these irons hot; and look thou stand
None but a holy hermit and her maid.
How fares my Juliet? that I ask again;
This says she now when she is beginning to write to
Insinuation, parley and base truce
And so I leave you both:
What out of this, my lord?
Great Apollo
All given to mine ear.
Sword is an oath, and oaths must have their course.
At thy request, monster, I will do reason, any
A market-maid to Rome; and have prevented
That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
Hal, if thou see me down in the battle and bestride
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
altitude of a chopine. Pray God, your voice, like
Now mark me, how I will undo myself;
gipsies on a horse.
Skulking in corners? wishing clocks more swift?
Love talks with better knowledge, and knowledge with
Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
Than arm thy constant and thy nobler parts
And in that vow we have forsworn our books.
My charms crack not; my spirits obey; and time
Sirrah, you were best take my coxcomb.
How much she loves me: O, the kindest Kate!
Give up your keys.
My famous cousin to our Grecian tents.
spirit, what devil suggests this imagination? I
These are the parents to these children,
Would I could meet that rogue Diomed! I would
O, I were damn'd beneath all depth in hell,
You shall have none ill, sir; for I'll try if they
Command my eldest son, nay, all my sons,
Exit
Re-enter LUCETTA
Bashful sincerity and comely love.
That thou hast done me; therefore turn and draw.
I would not be thy executioner:
do you think of the trade, Pompey? is it a lawful trade?
Why, I am glad on't; this is well: stand up:
You stand against anointed majesty.
O Brutus!
No, his conscience
To the king's danger. Presently the duke
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS, disguised as before; PISTOL,  as Hobgoblin; MISTRESS QUICKLY, ANNE PAGE, and others, as Fairies, with tapers
The villain would not stand me.
Though Suffolk dare him twenty thousand times.
Their mortal natures, letting go safely by
Ha, ha! how vilely doth this cynic rhyme!
That winter should cut off our spring-time so.
Here, kiss the book. Though thou canst swim like a
You loving men of Angiers, Arthur's subjects,
That drums him from his sport, and speaks as loud
No, nothing but ourselves.
Whose tongue?
Or Cytherea's breath; pale primroses
Master Barnardine!
quarrel with fear and trembling.
beasts most graze, birds best peck, and men sit down
Had he been Adam, he had tempted Eve;
What is decreed must be, and be this so.
Come, I will bring thee to thy bridal chamber.
When he did stand for consul, which he lost
I never was nor never will be false.
Or is your gold and silver ewes and rams?
Will you prepare you for this masque tonight?
At ample point all that I did possess,
Upon a wooden coffin we attend,
I see a good amendment of life in thee; from praying
Pardon, goddess of the night,
The gods preserve you both!
As heart can think or courage execute.
He did: and with an absolute 'Sir, not I,'
Now entertain conjecture of a time
And so she did.
Much less in blood than virtue, yet a princess
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
Faith, how easy?
their courage
So they are;
Are made, not mark'd; where violent sorrow seems
Will bear the knave by the volume. The honour'd gods
appear foul! takes virtuous copies to be wicked,
He did confound the best part of an hour
Enter trumpets, sounding; then two Aldermen, Lord  Mayor, Garter, CRANMER, NORFOLK with his marshal's  staff, SUFFOLK, two Noblemen bearing great  standing-bowls for the christening-gifts; then  four Noblemen bearing a canopy, under which the  Duchess of Norfolk, godmother, bearing the child  richly habited in a mantle,  and c., train borne by a  Lady; then follows the Marchioness Dorset, the  other godmother, and Ladies. The troop pass once about the stage, and Garter speaks
Sir, this is the gentleman I told you of:
SCENE III. The palace.
So were their daggers, which unwiped we found
as great discreetly as we can.
To-morrow morning to the council-board
Swear then by something that thou hast not wrong'd.
could then have looked on him without the help of
Of Antony's death.
As victors wear at the Olympian games:
I have done all. Bid them all fly; begone.
I'll gladly learn.
There's nothing can be minister'd to nature
in their very gesture; they looked as they had heard
By the gods, it is one. If I bring you no
And in that sea of blood my boy did drench
Nor I nor any man that but man is
Oh for my husband, for my dear lord Edward!
I could myself
Should in the furthest east begin to draw
My father stays my coming; answer not;
God bless him!
Exit
Uncle, I needs must pray that thou mayst lose;
In soft and delicate Lethe.
Sir, by your leave: having come to Padua
The lineal glory of your royal house,
How now, Catesby, what says your lord?
That of thy death and business I can tell.
ANTIPHOLUS
Shake quoth the dove-house: 'twas no need, I trow,
And call'd mine Percy, his Plantagenet!
An you'll come to supper to-night, you may; an you
E'er since pursue me.
Why, then, thy husband's lands I freely give thee.
And he shall our commission bring to you;
Then let not him be slander'd with revolt.
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
And willingly could waste my time in it.
Sir Proteus, save you! Saw you my master?
I do not think thou canst, for then thou wast not
Our fortune on the sea is out of breath,
notable cause to work.
Marry, that's a bountiful answer that fits all
I do suspect I have done some offence
for turning away, let summer bear it out.
Not being tried and tutor'd in the world:
I have fair meanings, sir.
Setting aside his high blood's royalty,
ransacked, my reputation gnawn at; and I shall not
You do blaspheme the good in mocking me.
Which we devise him.
Why rail'st thou on thy birth, the heaven, and earth?
A beastly ambition, which the gods grant thee t'
The prince your son, with mere conceit and fear
Which cannot choose but bring him quickly on.
Or else I often had been miserable.
Unreasonable creatures feed their young;
times in the thought they were not fairies: and yet
Now, darting Parthia, art thou struck; and now
As if they came from several citizens,
Enter Pyramus
I marvel why her grace did leave it out.
The dun and factious nobles of the Greeks
Upon this fairest prisoner.
He and his forces enter the city
Look thee, 'tis so! Thou singly honest man,
Like very sanctity, she did approach
Upon my part shall be unviolable.
Alas the day!
'Tis given with welcome: to feed were best at home;
That what we did was mildly as we might,
Go, captain, from me greet the Danish king;
O undistinguish'd space of woman's will!
duke's officer. Prove this, thou wicked Hannibal, or
Be as well neighbour'd, pitied, and relieved,
By custom of the coronation.
But, out, alas! here have we found him dead.
The constant service of the antique world,
The duke is very strangely gone from hence;
Exeunt King Edward and his company. March. Warwick and his company follow
stock, and freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end
If you like me, she shall have me and mine.
Are bringing forth our youth. We'll break our walls,
Hang up your ensign, let your drums be still,
We'll wait upon you.
Accusativo, hinc.
But cozen'd and beguiled.
But then are we in order when we are most
ANTIPHOLUS
Whereto the climber-upward turns his face;
In monumental mockery. Take the instant way;
Cut both the villains' throats; for die you shall:
hey-day, freedom!
Had not you come upon your cue, my lord
But thou with mildness entertain'st thy wooers,
The queen, your mother, in most great affliction of
your letter I am very sick: but in the instant that
the tired horse his rider. But, damosella virgin,
I would not from your love make such a stray,
That ne'er did service for't: being press'd to the war,
He will steal, sir, an egg out of a cloister: for
Weak shoulders, overborne with burthening grief,
To be discover'd, that can do me good?
man were porter of hell-gate, he should have
all, Katharine, break thy mind to me in broken
against thee by poison, entrap thee by some
As those that fear they hope, and know they fear.
Raise up the organs of her fantasy;
Proculeius,
By cutting off your heads: thus hath he sworn
This will I do, and this I will advise you:
But all be buried in his gravity.
Traitor, thou liest.
Set me against Aufidius and his Antiates;
SCENE IV. The platform.
Which our profane hours here have stricken down.
A gentler judgment vanish'd from his lips,
She's a beagle, true-bred, and one that adores me:
Whiles thou, a moral fool, sit'st still, and criest
constable's wife any harm? I would know that of
For God forbid so many simple souls
But, good lieutenant, is your general wived?
Where's that?
Yield many scholars.
The ploughman lost his sweat, and the green corn
And therefore 'tis called a sensible tale: and this
He never did harm, that I heard of.
For Theseus' perjury and unjust flight;
her? and loving woo? and, wooing, she should
my acquaintance with thee, or rather my knowledge,
What noise is this?
These famish'd beggars, weary of their lives;
Eye of newt and toe of frog,
My waned state for Henry's regal crown.
ANTIPHOLUS
And be a day before our husbands home:
I have seen, as that diamond of yours outlustres
ACT IV
sheep-shearing.
Go, Peto, to horse, to horse; for thou and I have
Perseus: he is pure air and fire; and the dull
not too late now.
He hath more worthy interest to the state
To spend with thee: we must obey the time.
word more,--
DIANA appears to PERICLES as in a vision
Or if you like elsewhere, do it by stealth;
SCENE III. London. The palace.
Exit above
Well ta'en, and like a buzzard.
Good Mistress Page, for that I love your daughter
So is running away, when fear proposes the safety;
Was innocence for innocence; we knew not
There be moe wasps that buzz about his nose
Nay, Cadwal, we must lay his head to the east;
Ha! ha! false to me?
Hot, hot, and moist: this hand of yours requires
We are but men; and what so many may do,
That our French gallants shall to-day draw out,
the red-nose innkeeper of Daventry. But that's all
This is he;
You shall to the Tower.
Hover about her; say, that right for right
and against your cony-catching rascals, Bardolph,
As many, worthy lady, to yourself:
Would we were all discharged!
But this my masculine usurp'd attire,
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
Of disobedience, or unduteous title,
How I convey my shame out of thine eyes
To call them both a pair of crafty knaves.
Against whose charms faith melteth into blood.
You say that Edward is your brother's son:
I prithee, sister Kate, untie my hands.
Therefore by law thou art condemned to die.
And milk comes frozen home in pail,
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Henceforth be earls, the first that ever Scotland
Unto the citizens, who haply may
Thus I enforce thy rotten jaws to open,
But, sir, sir,
Say their great enemy is gone, and they
There is a Frenchman his companion, one
And make the hearts of Romans serve your ends!
Arthur doth live; the king hath sent for you.
But for the general. He would be crown'd:
Incurr'd a traitor's name; exposed myself,
To him in thine own voice, and bring me word how
His pardon for return.
Will soon be drawn to head, from whence he moves
And for your faithfulness we will advance you.
left a purse alive in the whole army.
And so she doth, cousin.
Wonder to wait on treason and on murder:
I am glad on 't: then we shall ha' means to vent
[Aside to MENAS]  Forbear me till anon.
Peace! I will stop your mouth.
Farewell: the gods with safety stand about thee!
'marry trap' with you, if you run the nuthook's
masters! fly, masters! Help!
But they can see a sort of traitors here.
O my dear father! Restoration hang
Will you, not having my consent,
Reviving blood, and that great men shall press
As who goes farthest.
Exeunt
And with indented glides did slip away
And to what end is this? Nay, ladies, fear not;
Now, quiet soul, depart when heaven please,
To whom in all this presence speaks your grace?
I will go seek him. Cassio, walk hereabout:
Thou mayst be damned for that wicked deed!
SCENE V. A Heath.
The record of what injuries you did us,
I know I can do it.
marry her: my villany they have upon record; which
Trebonius: mark well Metellus Cimber: Decius Brutus
strange things from Rome; all tending to the good of
Alack, sir, he is mad.
I'll have mine action of battery on thee.
These quick-sands, Lepidus,
It would have much amazed you.
Might happily have proved far worse than his.
Famed be thy tutor, and thy parts of nature
Sorry am I his numbers are so few,
O, thou art wise; 'tis certain.
exalted respect than any one else that follows her.
What, will you go unto the Tower, my lord?
Why, so: now have I done a good day's work:
Which here appeareth due upon the bond.
Darest thou maintain the former words thou spakest?
'Tis Joan, not we, by whom the day is won;
A still-soliciting eye, and such a tongue
Queen Margaret, Prince Edward, and Oxford,
None of my lord's ring! why, he sent her none.
Doubled with thanks and service, from whose help
Come hither: I am here.
What time o' day?
Ay, my lord.
Unless Plantagenet, Duke of York, be king,
As I do live by food, I met a fool
Of my kind uncle, that I know will give;
with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I
For my little cure,
That overtopp'd them all. Betray'd I am:
What?
That counterfeit'st the person of a king?
It sounds no more: and sure, it waits upon
which I called Roderigo. My father was that
Loves for his own ends, not for you.
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
moved the king my master to speak in the behalf of
Which, by the sign thereof was termed so.
To take a paper up that I let fall.
Now in the rearward comes the duke and his:
Cut with her golden oars the silver stream,
Sign me a present pardon for my brother,
Nor ope her lap to saint-seducing gold:
The thrice-victorious Lord of Falconbridge;
Meaning, to court'sy.
The duty of the day: she looks us like
Tabours and cymbals and the shouting Romans,
And make her chronicle as rich with praise
and such like, the spice and salt that season a man?
Our master and mistress seeks you; come, away, away!
Madam, with all my heart;
nettles, or sow lettuce, set hyssop and weed up
Go tell the duke and 's wife I'ld speak with them,
Prepare you, lords, for Edward is at hand.
Remember it and let it make thee crest-fall'n,
I must with haste from hence.
I thought to crush him in an equal force,
And I will do it without fear or doubt,
'Tis but her picture I have yet beheld,
Than praised for harmful mildness.
As if his foot were on brave Hector's breast
Is gone to pray the holy king, upon his aid
To the oath of loyalty; this object, which
And then his banishment.
But get you to Smithfield, and gather head,
How much of his displeasure.
To put him to ill thinking.
The theme of our assembly.
Or those that be not, would they might seem none!
Give order to my servants that they take
For her relapse is mortal. Come, come;
We know your drift: speak what?
Do you smell a fault?
Bear to my closet. Fare thee well, Pisanio;
You are an alchemist; make gold of that.
Not moved by Antony.
O, 'tis the sun that maketh all things shine.
Enter IRIS
True, uncle.
Why, sir, is this such a piece of study? Now here
Aloud
Make no noise, make no noise; draw the curtains:
Protect mine innocence, or I fall into
she was quartered. They fell on; I made good my
O, 'twas the foulest deed to slay that babe,
Well, I will visit her: tell her so; and bid her
Solicit'st here a lady that disdains
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
Is to become her husband and her father:
SONG.
The name of Agincourt. Yet sit and see,
[Aside]  His words do take possession of my bosom.
His fretted fortunes give him hope, and fear,
In fine, redeem'd I was as I desired.
That he is march'd to Bourdeaux with his power,
Have you consider'd of my speeches? Know
I know you did.
Indeed, he is so: I repent me much
You know, Helen,
If not, why then, this parting was well made.
Strike up the drum; cry 'Courage!' and away.
Such neighbour nearness to our sacred blood
For, till I see them here, by doubtful fear
Let Mars divide eternity in twain,
Death is the fairest cover for her shame
Does yet depend.
Ay, Hal; 'tis hot, 'tis hot; there's that will sack a city.
Being our kinsman, if we revel much:
Have done! for shame, if not for charity.
years be no impediment to let him lack a reverend
At Friar Patrick's cell,
It poison'd me.
What wouldst thou?
that's the end.
How much I had to do to calm his rage!
bowling, it will please plentifully.
Than stands on any shoulder that I see
In peace and honour live Lord Titus long;
of the morning: what I think I utter, and spend my
Should have thus little mercy on their flesh?
And never will I rise up from the ground
Even at that news he dies; and then the hearts
likes. 'Tis a commodity will lose the gloss with
Come, Warwick, take the time; kneel down, kneel down:
Countless and infinite, yet would I pay them!
question, hoping to be the wiser by your answer. I
All my sad captains; fill our bowls once more;
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements,
Let it no more bring out ingrateful man!
Soft! I will go along;
Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, and COMINIUS, with Senators and Patricians
ourselves we publish them.
against my stomach. Hast any philosophy in thee, shepherd?
Against the walls of Athens.
O God! did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood?
Well hast thou spoken, cousin: be it so.
Sir, you have done enough, and have perform'd
To your protection I commend me, gods.
Come, come, our empress, with her sacred wit
Repeat their semblance often on the seas,
Has the old man e'er a son, sir, do you hear. an't
This wooden slavery than to suffer
The sun will set before I shall discharge
Mastiff, grey-hound, mongrel grim,
Good morrow, noble captain.
Your answer had not been inscroll'd:
with you. I told him you were asleep; he seems to
Now Phaethon hath tumbled from his car,
Your hands than mine are quicker for a fray,
Enter two Officers, to lay cushions
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
ACT II
Upon whose dead corpse there was such misuse,
A second Hector, for his grim aspect,
Must bear my beating to his grave--shall join
And on a safer judgment all revoke
But whether I be as true begot or no,
As a nose on a man's face, or a weathercock on a steeple!
Sir, she was respected with him before he married with her.
Than to be dealt in by attorneyship;
You show great mercy, if you give him life,
Came you from Padua, from Bellario?
If I did think, sir, I were well awake,
To pay our wonted tribute, from the which
Stay, stay, here comes the fool with Apemantus:
Well, let them practise and converse with spirits:
Was there none else in Rome to make a stale,
with you: I'll see if his head will stand steadier
He therefore sends you, meeter for your spirit,
Ay, and he'll tame her.
His honour: O, thine honour, Lewis, thine honour!
None that I more love than myself. You are a
throats to be cut, and works to be done; and there
As flesh of muttons, beefs, or goats. I say,
What now, Lucilius! is Cassius near?
But I shall, in a more continuate time,
From bourn to bourn, region to region.
To be your prisoner should import offending;
issuing blood
Even as she speaks, why, their hearts were yours;
As it hath been to us rare, pleasant, speedy,
You found his mote; the king your mote did see;
How shall I know if I do choose the right?
way of thy excuse: my lady will hang thee for thy absence.
Stand up, stand up; stand, and you be a man:
When it is baked with frost.
SCENE I. London. The palace.
Whose wisdom was a mirror to the wisest;
the excellency of her honour, that the folly of my
But on us both did haggish age steal on
Him he knew well, and guess'd that it was she,
Enter EARL OF SALISBURY and a Welsh Captain
Now show yourselves men; 'tis for liberty.
adversary's entertainment. Now he hath a smack of
But lest you should not understand me well,--
thing, Nerissa, ere I'll be married to a sponge.
That we with wisest sorrow think on him,
And only hitherward. I leave your honours.
Even till that England, hedged in with the main,
Ah, poor my lord, what tongue shall smooth thy name,
Exit CLARENCE, and SOMERSET follows
The ditty does remember my drown'd father.
Will blow these sands, like Sibyl's leaves, abroad,
My noble steed, known to the camp, I give him,
Not so, my lord.
Fill me a bowl of wine. Give me a watch.
Since I am charged in honour and by him
Pythagoras' time, that I was an Irish rat, which I
Beating him
Ah, Humphrey, can I bear this shameful yoke?
unthought of and speak out of my injury.
Were equal poise of sin and charity.
Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? you
What if it be a poison, which the friar
Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blubbering.
That ever lay by man: which when the people
score hogsheads. I have sounded the very
My lord?
Reads
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
To bring him in! Trust me, I could do much,--
With opening titles miscreate, whose right
I am one of those; his mother, wife, his child,
Here shall he see No enemy
What, will you walk with me about the town,
bachelor; and by how much defence is better than no
drink in Illyria: he's a coward and a coystrill
Kinsmen, shoot all your shafts into the court:
I would my father look'd but with my eyes.
And as I find her, so am I affected.
This ship-boy's semblance hath disguised me quite.
Lips, do not move;
my consent, and my consent goes not that way.
I crave your blessing.
Tell our devotion with revengeful arms?
Where's Fulvia's process? Caesar's I would say? both?
[Aside]  Why, so this gallant will command the sun.
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, EGEUS, and train
The secret mischiefs that I set abroach
Into our city with thy banners spread:
A third thinks, without expense at all,
To me, blood-thirsty lord;
Let's think in private more.
But 'tis no wit to go.
Worse than a smoky house: I had rather live
I will disparage her no farther till you are my
As the event stamps them: but they have a good
What must I do?
generally?
Stanley, I will requite thy forwardness.
Buz, buz!
With that we lack. I'll hold thee any wager,
thou lookest cheerly, and I'll be with thee quickly.
Friend Launcelot, what's the news?
They have the gift to know it: and in his brain,
Letters from him! why comes he not himself?
Once more, Cesario,
Thou injurious thief,
O think'st thou we shall ever meet again?
Take heed the queen come not within his sight;
Why thou damnable box of envy, thou, what meanest
If it be found so, some will dear abide it.
In no less working than are swords and bows
For two; and sound ones too.
She is not, madam.
If he do fear God, a' must necessarily keep peace:
SCENE III. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Put on my brows this wreath of victory,
And they in France of the best rank and station
Though not for me, yet for your aching bones.
So did I yours. Good your grace, pardon me;
Were hid against me, now to forgive me frankly.
And with you take the chain and bid my wife
And oped their arms to embrace me as a friend.
Old Helicanus goes along behind.
I know not what may fall; I like it not.
And time that is so briefly spent
By taking nor by giving of excess,
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
Enter SHYLOCK
The matter?
prove a shrunk panel and, like green timber, warp, warp.
That Charles the Dauphin may encounter them.
Against thy seat: both young and old rebel,
Spake you with him?
I will hold my peace when Achilles' brach bids me, shall I?
To the discontented members, the mutinous parts
Conceive, and fare thee well.
Pray God the plants thou graft'st may never grow.
And you, sir.
Who should against his murderer shut the door,
Use honour with you.
And meet the time as it seeks us. We fear not
But to fine issues, nor Nature never lends
us, here is that gold I have: I'll make it as much
Exit an Attendant
As sensual as the brutish sting itself;
Teach sin the carriage of a holy saint;
Is to exchange one misery with another,
Exeunt
of a leg, and have not money enough in the end to
O most insatiate and luxurious woman!
It shall advantage more than do us wrong.
Heaven grant us its peace, but not the King of
I will possess you of that ship and treasure.
Some one be ready with a costly suit
follows his own instructions: I can easier teach
Your grace must wait till you be call'd for.
For every pelting, petty officer
Not for Bohemia, nor the pomp that may
all neighbouring languages; therefore we must every
That, as my hand has open'd bounty to you,
Enter a Servant
Hath conjured to attend. I know the merchant.
Or sent to Naples. Let me not,
Some other mistress hath thy sweet aspects;
Enter SLENDER
Who's his lieutenant, hear you?
That feeds and breeds by a composture stolen
I cannot stay to hear these articles.
Canst with thine eyes at once see good and evil,
And there's an oath of credit.
My trusty servant, well approved in all,
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Now, what a thing it is to be an ass!
And let him find it. Trifles light as air
Was I, in sooth? and I was the first that lost thee.
Remembers me of all his gracious parts,
Be curses to yourselves? You should have said
To have them in safe stowage: may it please you
Where Reignier sooner will receive than give.
What was his cause of anger?
Razed out my imprese, leaving me no sign,
And coops from other lands her islanders,
Which still we thank as love. Herein I teach you
In quantity equals not one of yours:
Even in the matter of mine innocence;
Farewell, young lords; these warlike principles
I am blest in your acquaintance. Do you know Ford,
Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
I doubt not that; since we are well persuaded
[Aside]	Amen:
Of half that worth as those your swords, made rich
Canst thou so daff me? Thou hast kill'd my child:
He knits his brow and shows an angry eye,
Did see man die! scarce ever look'd on blood,
And how desirous of our sight they are.
Good my lord, bid him welcome: this is the
The rather that you give his offspring life,
In vain! his service done
proportion the losses we have borne, the subjects we
With the help of a surgeon he might yet recover, and
Art thou not weary, John? how dost thou fare?
Why, this it is; see, see!
An armour, friends! I pray you, let me see it.
Good night.
There's never a one of you but trusts a knave,
Thy huntress' name that my full life doth sway.
His bleeding sword 'twixt England and fair France.
Find we a time for frighted peace to pant,
You see we have burnt our cheeks: strong Enobarb
Therefore, fair Hermia, question your desires;
Yes, Pole.
Honour and virtue and conversed with such
That you did nothing purpose 'gainst the state;
The word is too good to paint out her wickedness; I
The worst of all her scholars, my good lord.
From a pound to a pin? fold it over and over,
And therewithal took measure of my body.
What says the married woman? You may go:
I will be welcome, then: conduct me thither.
Dead to infliction, to themselves are dead;
I free you from't. You are not to be taught
expostulate with her, lest her body and beauty
The queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
As much as would maintain, to the king's honour,
Rome, I have been thy soldier forty years,
To that which had too much:' then, being there alone,
My grief was at the height before thou camest,
Send word to you he would be there to-morrow.
So shall all the couples three
limekilns i' the palm, incurable bone-ache, and the
The yards and bowsprit, would I flame distinctly,
Exeunt KING LEAR, GLOUCESTER, KENT, and Fool
Exeunt
To KENT
What is't to me, when you yourselves are cause,
stands well with her.
There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple:
Give me your hand: before this holy friar,
Nothing but papers, my lord.
To have them fall no more: you some permit
not as good a deed as drink, to turn true man and to
That all our swains commend her?
To be fantastic may become a youth
To load my she with knacks: I would have ransack'd
The Knights and Ladies dance
Good! gramercy.
Whereto we are bound, together with thy victory,
Away! I have nothing to do with thee.
SCENE II. A room in the palace.
That is now answered.
And you by land.
Seventh sweet, adieu:
Intend my travel, where I'll hear from thee;
Exit
Enter, from one side, AARON, DEMETRIUS, and  CHIRON; from the other side, Young LUCIUS, and an  Attendant, with a bundle of weapons, and verses writ upon them
She prizes not such trifles as these are:
Menenius ever, ever.
But neither bended knees, pure hands held up,
Successful fortune, steel thy melting heart
For my respects are better than they seem
Before he'll buy again at such a rate:
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
Be't as our gods will have't! It only stands
Because kind nature doth require it so:
Exeunt
Without perdition, and loss assume all reason
'Till I have no wife, I have nothing in France.'
That is well known; and, as I think, one father:
To Juliet's grave; for there must I use thee.
man.
One rich enough to be Petruchio's wife,
Flower of this purple dye,
Will I look to't.
Well, I will see what I can do for thee: if I can
Hum!
Good grandsire, leave these bitter deep laments:
So I told him, my lord; and I said I heard your
SCENE II. The forest.
And so, my lord protector, see them guarded
I here bestow a simple instrument,
To rouse a Grecian that is true in love:
sometimes more feet than shoes, or such shoes as my
And every tale condemns me for a villain.
they are for the town's end, to beg during life.
robin-redbreast; to walk alone, like one that had
Your company to the Capitol; where, I know,
Now, by the burning tapers of the sky,
and the bear mocked him, both roaring louder than
No more a Briton, I have resumed again
But, soft! who wafts us yonder?
Your heart's desires be with you!
Enter MACBETH
Who in that sale sells pardon from himself,
Let Pericles believe his daughter's dead,
You'll nothing, madam, to my lord by me?
The honey of his language. No, he's settled,
Give me my robes. I am wild in my beholding.
Present yourself, desire his service, tell him
The cruel issue of these bloody men;
And take in Toryne? You have heard on't, sweet?
Is pleased you shall to the Tower, till you know
Lose those he hath won.
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
Exeunt CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
deservest it.
were sensible as your finger, that you might leave
and have a desire, as my father shall specify--
Welcome to Rome.
We freely cope your courteous pains withal.
Heaven comfort her!
Their brave pavilions: Priam's six-gated city,
And then return lamenting to my love.
Which being but the shadow of your son,
Hold, hold, hold, hold!
Is certain falling, or so slippery that
Well, my good lord.
nether-stocks.
My head as I do his.
Because it is an enemy to thee;
So honour cross it from the north to south,
Enter VALENTINE
Direct my sail! On, lusty gentlemen.
A course of learning and ingenious studies.
Against my canker'd country with the spleen
But if you  knew to whom you show this honour,
Now we'll together; and the chance of goodness
This little abstract doth contain that large
Ere now denied the asker? and now again
In lasting labour of his pilgrimage!
And open perils surest answered.
Close by the battle, ditch'd, and wall'd with turf;
Nay, I have offer'd all, I have no more;
Hold you the watch to-night?
spitting or saying we are hoarse, which are the only
As I seem now. Their transformations
These words will cost ten thousand lives this day.
I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players;
methinks I have given him a penny and he renders me
will come this way by and by, and then we may deliver
O'erblows the filthy and contagious clouds
Aside
Here 'tis; this is it.
Re-enter the EARL OF DOUGLAS
Here they fight. CADE falls
Our frustrate search on land. Well, let him go.
May deem that you are worthily deposed.
But to go hang my head all at one side,
talking. Trinculo, the king and all our company
A sun and moon, which kept their course,
But in that crystal scales let there be weigh'd
displeasure of the people is as bad as that which he
This is not strong enough to be believed
As we were sickly prey: their shadows seem
thirtieth of May next ensuing. Item, that the duchy
congealed ice; that I know to be true: and he is a
By such despair, I should accuse myself.
Dead, for my life!
And what's
If never, yet that Time himself doth say
Shall I have audience? he shall present Hercules in
if I would think my heart out of thinking, that you
They have put forth the haven
A messenger from Henry, our dread liege,
Help to cover your master, boy. Call your men,
Why in that rawness left you wife and child,
thy sovereign.
Let's briefly put on manly readiness,
Exeunt
true English, I love thee, Kate: by which honour I
I did very well note him.
And never will I undertake the thing
Bare-headed plodded by my foot-cloth mule
Unto the kingdom of perpetual night.
We will meet them,
Witches' mummy, maw and gulf
Well said, Master Parson.
Which trades to Venice. Waste no time in words,
So shall my virtue be his vice's bawd;
Ay, marry, now unmuzzle your wisdom.
And she takes upon her to spy a white hair on his chin.
And make the babbling gossip of the air
God ye good den, fair gentlewoman.
When you come 'cross his humour; faith, he does:
What time we will our celebration keep
Well said: follow me this jest now till thou hast
That's curdied by the frost from purest snow
She hath had too much wrong; and I repent
If I want gold, steal but a beggar's dog,
Bring your army; but, I think, you'll find
Is leaden servitor to dull delay;
ANTIPHOLUS
Whose liquor hath this virtuous property,
Yet mark'd I where the bolt of Cupid fell:
To stand auspicious mistress,--
I will not sleep, Hortensio, till I see her;
But when contention and occasion meet,
Is come indeed, when I should see behind me
Thy grief is but thy absence for a time.
Shall never see it but a holiday.
from court and is less frequent to his princely
More grave and wrinkled than the aims and ends
Enter DEMETRIUS and PHILO
list of my voyage.
I see thy age and dangers make thee dote.
Then let me stay; and, father, do you fly:
honesty: and, I warrant you, they could never get
O villain, villain! His very opinion in the
I am transformed, master, am I not?
Which let thy wiseness fear: hold off thy hand.
[To MARINA]  Come your ways. My masters, you say
Why are we met in council?
Should so profane the word, that taught me craft
O deadly gall, and theme of all our scorns!
Peace, silence! Brutus speaks.
First, sir, I pray,
I grant ye, upon instinct. Well, he is there too,
No, not a creature enters in my house.
Till one can do no more.
Protects not us: then why should we be tender
Be by my friends in Spain advised; whose counsel
In manners, as in shape! thy blood and virtue
Hath doubtfully pronounced thy throat shall cut,
And gave you such a masterly report
To look like her are chimney-sweepers black.
And so in this, to bear me down with braves.
She's none of mine, my lord.
As I am made without him, so I'll stand,
With sweet musk-roses and with eglantine:
Each bound it chafes. What have you there?
You sin against
He, sir! a tapster, sir; parcel-bawd; one that
This is the first truth that e'er thine own tongue
No profit grows where is no pleasure ta'en:
Hark! he stirs: shall I strike?
And thus my battle shall be ordered:
Tom will throw his head at them. Avaunt, you curs!
SCENE IV. The Tower of London.
That two such noble peers as ye should jar!
And that the legions now in Gallia are
Anon, good nurse! Sweet Montague, be true.
after. Nothing but lechery! all incontinent varlets!
All cause unborn, could never be the motive
At blow and thrust; even as again they were
Whereof perchance these are but furnishings;
In restless ecstasy. Duncan is in his grave;
Rise from thy stool.
Should die for ever.
other, if she will not discover it.
IAGO from behind wounds CASSIO in the leg, and exit
My learned lord, we pray you to proceed
With his own bolt; the strong-based promontory
But mine is all as hungry as the sea,
Selves of themselves, to your recomforture.
And to the Roman empire; promising
to move in't, are the holes where eyes should be,
With unchaste purpose and with oath to violate
As he began, and not unknit himself
If all the year were playing holidays,
O yes, I saw sweet beauty in her face,
I do not sleep: I see, I hear, I speak;
Thou wilt be throng'd to shortly.
And Nero will be tainted with remorse,
Doublets, I think,--flew up; and had their faces
No unchaste action, or dishonour'd step,
I ne'er might say before. When I came back--
Yes, my lord. More jewels yet!
Come hither, Isabel.
Understanding, it strikes a man more dead than a
What three things does drink especially provoke?
Since that the truest issue of thy throne
Enter the KING, NORTHUMBERLAND, WORCESTER, HOTSPUR, SIR WALTER BLUNT, with others
Which modern lamentations might have moved?
Stephano! If thou beest Stephano, touch me and
Imparts this; which if you, or stupefied
But that's all one; omittance is no quittance.
As you wish Christian peace to souls departed,
We mean to fight: within our files there are,
Whose mouth is cover'd with rude-growing briers,
How you delight, my lords, I know not, I;
Environ you, till mischief and despair
Ay, it is fit for your lordship only.
SCENE II. The French camp.
In ivory coffers I have stuff'd my crowns;
But if the prince do live, let us salute him,
best breed in the north. When they were ready to
Told the sad story of my father's death,
Let her alone, lady: as she is now, she will but
'twas not so, but, indeed, God forbid it should be
I'll turn to sparks of fire.
Ha, ha! what a fool Honesty is! and Trust, his
bestowed much honour on a young Florentine called Claudio.
Husband, let's follow, to see the end of this ado.
Yet, by reputing of his high descent,
The count's gentleman, one Cesario: we took him for
Bianca, stand aside. Poor girl! she weeps.
For my sake be comfortable; hold death awhile at
And passeth by with stiff unbowed knee,
As duteous to the vices of thy mistress
Your friends are up, and buckle on their armour.
With every minute you do change a mind,
That's mercy, but too much security:
Hugg'd and embraced by the strumpet wind!
he was a man. But I will forward with my device.
disturbing the lords within.
When foreign princes shall be certified
The mere despair of surgery, he cures,
Stephano, two Neapolitans 'scaped!
O Clifford, boisterous Clifford! thou hast slain
Whereof the king my brother stood possess'd.
Did you such a thing?
We will, in France, by God's grace, play a set
as they say, and know the world.
Knocking within
I pray you, sir, receive the money now,
Madam, have comfort: all of us have cause
is: and there's her thrummed hat and her muffler
Dost it enforcedly; thou'ldst courtier be again,
Men all in fire walk up and down the streets.
Hang off, thou cat, thou burr! vile thing, let loose,
With one consent to have her so bestow'd;
And, in conclusion,
Surprised! by whom?
Only for saying he would make his son
That all the world will be in love with night
Romeo!
Exit
LAVINIA turns over with her stumps the books which LUCIUS has let fall
Lamentings heard i' the air; strange screams of death,
Though many dearer, in this bloody fray.
And to preserve my sovereign from his foe,
Where stain'd nobility lies trodden on,
Richard, enough; I will be king, or die.
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we do?
I have dined.
Well said, well said; the fire and cloths.
That shall demonstrate these quick blows of Fortune's
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
Shall ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep
Well said, my noble Scot: if speaking truth
I thank you. Fare you well.
No grave upon the earth shall clip in it
As much in mock as mark.
Are dogg'd with two strange followers.
To the gross clasps of a lascivious Moor--
Yet do not go away: come, basilisk,
I, madam? no, I have no reason for it;
And, often but attended with weak guard,
There are some shrewd contents in yon same paper,
Carries no favour in't but Bertram's.
John Duke of Norfolk, Walter Lord Ferrers,
Joy absent, grief is present for that time.
In evils to top Macbeth.
humble-bee on the top of a thistle; and, good
Indeed, it is a strange-disposed time:
Stars, stars,
Cousin of Exeter, what thinks your lordship?
and extend to you what further becomes his
The shaft confounds,
Keeping them prisoner underneath her wings.
And the vile squealing of the wry-neck'd fife,
But few now living can behold that goodness--
Wilt thou accept of ransom? yea, or no.
In summer, where the ways are fair enough:
Give me another horse: bind up my wounds.
This treasure of an oyster; at whose foot,
How I have loved and honour'd Saturnine!
Thou think'st there is no more such shapes as he,
Now present here together: that's to say,
penning of it.
What is't? a spirit?
Write down, that they hope they serve God: and
She vied so fast, protesting oath on oath,
Can pierce a complete bosom. Why I desire thee
Like one that stands upon a promontory,
turned spit, yea, and have cleft his club to make
Of what you should forget. Now, good my liege
Have the like oaths: he had sworn to marry me
Command thy son and daughter to join hands.
Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remains
to find you out there: you have well saved me a
Then, taking him from thence that is not there,
To give her the avaunt! it is a pity
Long live Richard, England's royal king!
She, Claudio, that you wrong'd, look you restore.
Kiss it, my warrior: he hath fought to-day
'Tis well I am found by you.
Happier is he that has no friend to feed
Each buzz, each fancy, each complaint, dislike,
The wise and fool, the artist and unread,
he hath faults, with surplus, to tire in repetition.
Exeunt MONTANO and GRATIANO
What think'st thou of the rich Mercatio?
With old odd ends stolen out of holy writ;
I will be brief, for my short date of breath
See, brother, see; note how she quotes the leaves.
As one man more, methinks, would share from me
Sings
To you I am bound for life and education;
Such as she is, in beauty, virtue, birth,
Gentlemen, good den: a word with one of you.
PINDARUS stabs him
afternoon Barnardine: for my better satisfaction,
What error leads must err; O, then conclude
Shall be your love and labour's recompense.
And yet not many.
discover his government.
For sundry weighty reasons.
Marry, and shall.
That we shall stop her exclamation.
Equality of two domestic powers
How I am galled,--mightst bespice a cup,
nothing are they welcome.
Alarum. Cry within, 'Fly, fly, fly!'
melted away with rotten dews, the fourth would return
Lest Rome herself be bane unto herself,
A word, good sir;
If that your moody discontented souls
Pardon it;
The young Dumain, a well-accomplished youth,
What thou deny'st to men; let prisons swallow 'em,
To any pastime?
To make the dear loss, have I means much weaker
And me they left with those of Epidamnum.
I know thou didst not, thou'rt not such a villain:
Thou art a soldier only: speak no more.
One, her hairs were gold, crystal the other's eyes:
Take her away; for she hath lived too long,
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
And you, sir, to outlive the age I am,
picked--with the devil's name!--out of my
Brass, cur!
my displeasure. That young start-up hath all the
And make this haste as your own good proceeding,
Have you done yet?
With what is spoke already.
Might have prevented many. Eros, ho!
mouthed bottle, either too much at once, or none at
And deeper than did ever plummet sound
There.
When, by and by, the din of war gan pierce
Although, I know, you 'll swear, terribly swear
Weighing the youthful season of the year.
To see this business. To-morrow next
Unless Lord Suffolk straight be done to death,
She hath been colted by him.
Not I, honey-sweet queen. I long to hear how they
Drums afar off
Her and her blind boy's scandal'd company
His tears run down his beard, like winter's drops
And he requires your haste-post-haste appearance,
In at his window; set this up with wax
To old Baptista as a schoolmaster
To do a thing, where I the issue doubted,
Do me some service, ere I come to thee.
Good my lord cardinal, I have half a dozen healths
'Tis all the better;
To seem despiteful and ungentle to you:
Exit
Save you, gentleman.
From my succession wipe me, father; I
To wrong the dead, to wrong myself and you,
Come on, my boy: how dost, my boy? art cold?
From that particular fault: the dram of eale
With other muniments and petty helps
Devised at first to keep the strong in awe:
The latest of my wealth I'll share amongst you.
To Servant
'I am conqueror of myself.' Thou art sworn, Eros,
What plain proceeding is more plain than this?
fortune; honour for his valour; and death for his
That down fell both the Ram's horns in the court;
A deed without a name.
I have no judgment in an honest face:
With bonds of death!
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE and NORTHUMBERLAND, with Forces
He will have all, I think.
There is gold for you;
you.
Fears make devils of cherubims; they never see truly.
Where is thy husband now? where be thy brothers?
rather he should shrive me than wive me. Come,
didst know how many fathom deep I am in love! But
Here's my glove: give me another of thine.
question to thee: if thou answerest me not to the
Ere from this war thou turn a conqueror,
and reins well.
clothes? Come away.
I am glad to see your ladyship.
Where will you find men worthy enough to present them?
Exeunt
Seeing the body
If thou have power to raise him, bring him hither,
not; but thy intercepter, full of despite, bloody as
Shall see us rising in our throne, the east,
Slaughters a thousand waiting upon that.
Thunder and lightning. Enter CAESAR, in his night-gown
Your lives shall pay the forfeit of the peace.
If yet her brother's pardon be come hither:
He is our subject, Mowbray; so art thou:
I' th' afternoon to sleep: there thou mayst brain him,
To boast of this or take the praise from God
See, how they kiss and court! Signior Lucentio,
You are princes and my guests.
How true a gentleman you send relief,
'Tis thought that Richmond is their admiral;
And thus I cured him; and this way will I take upon
Longs after for the garbage.
Enter THURIO and Musicians
Five thousand drops pays that.
sake, to make no more noise with it.
I will have more, or scold it out of him.
Madam, my former suit: I do beseech you
France were no place for Henry's warriors;
My fault, but not my body, pardon, sovereign.
Or in the night, imagining some fear,
Exit Servant
See, lord and father, how we have perform'd
Duke Menaphon, your most renowned uncle.
Then, good my lords, bear witness to his oath.
Please it this matron and this gentle maid
Helen and Hero hildings and harlots; Thisbe a grey
Sir, sir, sir,--
scold with her. She told me, not thinking I had been
Cousin of Somerset, join you with me,
live, he had suffered for't; you shall judge. He
This devil here shall be my substitute;
Before not dreamt of.
divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles
From rascals worse than they.
and drown? Have you a mind to sink?
digested in the scenes, set down with as much
Sitting down with them
He might have bought me at a common price:
Desires for sport, and frailty, as men have?
carries it: they begin to smoke me; and disgraces
Show me the very wound of this ill news:
shall seem to notify unto her.
I but believe it partly;
Sir,
Adieu, adieu! Hamlet, remember me.
SCENE II. Bohemia. The palace of POLIXENES.
I thought to have ta'en you at the Porpentine:
Yet will I woo for him, but yet so coldly
Of Ragozine, more like to Claudio?
Plead my successive title with your swords:
No more than what he thinks he is.
Look to it well and say you are well warn'd.
Do prophesy upon it dangerously:
Ay, sir, by Mistress Overdone's means: but as she
I prithee, let thy wife attend on her:
quickly! the other that she's in earth, from whence
Brother, though I be youngest, give me leave.
Again uncurse their souls; their peace is made
Your wrongs do set a scandal on my sex:
From the great compt: but love that comes too late,
Keep word, Lysander: we must starve our sight
hanged: Charles' wain is over the new chimney, and
On this Ascension-day, remember well,
Exit
Our hard-ruled king. Again, there is sprung up
An untimely ague
And quickly bring us word of England's fall.
Of brothers' temper, do receive you in
But see, his face is black and full of blood,
Out of myself, press me to death with wit.
Stabs himself
Upon a lie seven times removed:--bear your body more
Therefore doth heaven divide
good friend Trinculo.
And that same prayer doth teach us all to render
My love, my life my soul, fair Helena!
A good sharp fellow: I will send for him; and
The next is, that Sir Thomas More is chosen
For he is footed in this land already.
And am fall'n out with my more headier will,
For sluttish spoils of opportunity
I have not known when his affections sway'd
What, shall we forth?
Wilt thou yet leave the battle, boy, and fly,
Sir, how comes't that you
We here discharge your grace from being regent
God, for thy mercy! they are loose again.
And therefore let me have him home with me.
And am to Padua come, as he that leaves
But not a thousand marks between you both.
If that the praised himself bring the praise forth:
Against the blood that thou hast married?
come forth?
Because we ever have been near the king.
With such bedecking ornaments of praise?
Enter Host and SIMPLE
DON
Will raise us all.
Than that of thought. Suppose that you have seen
Doth swear to the gods that winter kills the flies:
Of nature be corrupted through affection,
And how mightily some other times we drown our gain
I did upbraid her and fall out with her;
Thou darest as well be hanged.
That's one of them.
Wake Duncan with thy knocking! I would thou couldst!
Cometh Andronicus, bound with laurel boughs,
Counsel, Lucetta; gentle girl, assist me;
the revenue that was old Sir Rowland's will I
Tell you the Dauphin I am coming on,
O brave spirit!
Knocking within
nurse, or his cook, or his laundry, his washer, and
Ere he, that should be husband, comes to woo.
[Kneeling]  No man shed tears for noble Mutius;
To flatter Henry and forsake thy brother!
Be rein'd again to temperance; then he speaks
Or never be so noble as a consul,
And not where I had aim'd them.
Troilus will stand to the proof, if you'll
Knocking
That it prefers itself and leaves unquestion'd
To entertain great England's lawful king.
For mine own part, I breathe free breath. I have
Set it down. Is ink and paper ready?
So seems this gorgeous beauty to mine eyes.
O, she did so course o'er my exteriors with such a
Into the channel, till the lowest stream
To hear the wooden dialogue and sound
Your father's sickness is a maim to us.
Look to thy bark: I'll not be long before
Mocks married men; for thus sings he, 	Cuckoo;
We'll never leave till we have hewn thee down,
Came I to take her from her kindred's vault;
Unless philosophy can make a Juliet,
To the great lord.
I laugh'd him out of patience; and that night
What a pestilent knave is this same!
I would I were senseless, sir, that I might not feel
Your loop'd and window'd raggedness, defend you
Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
When scarce the blood was well wash'd from his hands
Out of his scattering and unsure observance.
Lady Constance, peace!
appointment, to be ourselves.
Poor thing, condemn'd to loss!
The Roman emperor greets you all by me;
Nor play at subtle games; fair virtues all,
Prithee, go hence;
Forbear sharp speeches to her: she's a lady
No sooner was I crept out of my cradle
Exeunt
comprehended two aspicious persons, and we would
So is the equal of this fell war.
Farewell master; farewell, farewell!
And keep in-a-door,
In characters as red as Mars his heart
This shall not be revoked.
If thou wilt outstrip death, go cross the seas,
he keeps the wind!
True, sir; I was in love with my bed: I thank you,
Both young and old, one with another, Ford;
Of warlike Lucius, and appoint the meeting
Prithee bring him in; and let him approach singing.
Here cometh Charles: I marvel how he sped.
I dare be sworn
ACT III
Before they think of us.
But, cousin, what if we assay'd to steal
We live not to be grip'd by meaner persons.
Spoke like a sprightful noble gentleman.
to bid any man stand, in the prince's name.
moreover, they have spoken untruths; secondarily,
O gentlemen, the time of life is short!
Hence with it, and together with the dam
By this good light, this is a very shallow monster!
Come, cousin, let us tell the queen these news.
With ransom of such shame. Would yet he had lived!
Vouchsafe to speak my thanks and my obedience,
By your power legatine, within this kingdom,
Jack hath not Jill: these ladies' courtesy
hear me speak but this.
Thou thought'st to help me; and such thanks I give
conscience; which is, indeed, sir, a mender of bad soles.
wrestler shall clear all: nothing remains but that
But words are words; I never yet did hear
Be patient; to-morrow 't shall be mended,
He is, Sir John: I fear we shall stay too long.
When such a one as she such is her neighbour?
So that all hope is vain.
With all my love I do commend me to you:
Her feet were much too dainty for such tread!
Or half her worthiness that gave the ring,
Speak 'gainst so great a number? How, in one house,
Come to our tent till we have done our conference.
And I will kill thee, if thou dost deny
And therefore mine shall save my brothers' lives.
Where is this Hector?
Say how he died, for I will hear it all.
should quickly have been out, I warrant you: I dare
And so will I and write home for it straight.
The lofty cedar, royal Cymbeline,
Nay, master, said not I as much when I saw the
As he to me: would he have stolen away
What? what?
Exeunt
But left that hateful office unto thee:
Hardly serve.
Under the lordly monarch of the north,
Are ye fantastical, or that indeed
Sweet love,--
Enter CLARENCE and SOMERSET
Kind sister, thanks: we'll enter all together.
Thyself and office deftly show!
Having more man than wit about me, drew:
Takes note of what is done; and, like a prophet,
man a doit.
discovers it.
Bestride our down-fall'n birthdom: each new morn
His absolute commission. Long live Caesar!
Hadst not been born than not to have pleased me better.
Exit Ghost
Here is Sir William Lucy, who with me
Upon my body with their hellish charms?
How is't, my soul? let's talk; it is not day.
That wear those colours on them: what art thou,
Put them in secret holds, both Barnardine and Claudio:
How canst thou thus for shame, Titania,
ripe, and that's the right virtue of the medlar.
handle, or use any sword, weapon, or dagger,
My maid's aunt, the fat woman of Brentford, has a
Or else by him my love deny,
And therefore homeward did they bend their course.
What, will the line stretch out to the crack of doom?
Exit with Officers
Exit
That art incestuous: caitiff, to pieces shake,
For the Dauphin,
Canterbury,
Thou liest; thou canst not.
But thou hast sworn against religion,
Men prize the thing ungain'd more than it is:
Madam!
Cordelia leaves you: I know you what you are;
But such as I, without your special pardon,
Let's hear him, for the things he speaks
[Singing]
Or I my life.
What should this mean?
BRUTUS and SICINIUS go aside
Madam, as thereto sworn by your command,
And to his hand when I deliver her,
the wars do as every sick man in his bed, wash every
That we have made so much on. I had rather
so likes your music, that he desires you, for love's
I beseech you, sir, go: my young master doth expect
Lord Angelo is severe.
Last time, I danced attendance on his will
Worthy his youth and nobleness of birth.
And ten to one is no impeach of valour.
Ah, ha, my lord, this prince is not an Edward!
What, that my leg is too long?
As the honey of Hybla, my old lad of the castle. And
You make strong party, or defend yourself
bawdry, which is strange; with such delicate
light is an effect of fire, and fire will burn;
Suppose they take offence without a cause,
Thou wilt fall backward when thou comest to age;
How often hast thou waited at my cup,
The senate hath stirr'd up the confiners
Who, not the duke? yes, your beggar of fifty; and
nothing, let him call me rogue for being so far
Peace be with you, sir.
Nay then, no matter; stay with me awhile;
Unmeritable shuns your high request.
Our wedding cheer to a sad burial feast,
Away! let's go learn the truth of it.
Dost thou desire her foully for those things
truly, my ancient skill beguiles me; but, in the
Upon a homely object Love can wink.
For they are certain and unfallible.
And drench'd me in the sea, where I am drown'd.
Only to herald thee into his sight,
he waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither
Eros! mine armour, Eros!
Her times of preservation, which perforce
Thou wilt o'ertake us, hence a mile or twain,
with warrant.
Well, we may meet again.
the love of Juno, let's go.
What should I say to you? Should I not say
The night of dew that on my cheeks down flows:
Enter VALERIA, with an Usher and Gentlewoman
In truth, la, go with me; and I'll tell you
My native English, now I must forego:
ear, bloody of hand; hog in sloth, fox in stealth,
With thy chaste eye, from thy pale sphere above,
Prithee, my king, be quiet. Seest thou here,
sure, they are bastards to the English; the French
Exton, I thank thee not; for thou hast wrought
Ay, marry, go, I say, and fetch him hither.
Some hangman must put on my shroud and lay me
The one, to save the money that he spends in
Who's there? my Lord AEneas! By my troth,
face: if your lordship be in't, as I believe you
The vasty fields of France? or may we cram
Throw their best eyes upon't!
My lord, I have news to tell you.
'Twas where you woo'd the gentlewoman so well:
father will hence to-night.
Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less;
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding,
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM, in rotten armour, marvellous ill-favoured
Takes on the point of honour to support
He gave it to a commoner o' the camp,
But that the guilt of murder bucklers thee
the right: but to the point. As I say, this
Makes both my body pine and soul to languish,
[Aside]  That you are both decipher'd, that's the news,
and disheartens him; makes him stand to, and
And be inheritor of thy desire.
Then though my heart's content firm love doth bear,
'Remember now my brother.'
solemnized: if the interim be but a se'nnight,
till now: two thousand ducats in that; and other
My faith and this the princess I did give:
Can I demand.
am glad to hear it.
Who's that which calls?
I never saw the chain, so help me Heaven!
There to be crowned Richard's royal queen.
A sister! you are she.
To RICHMOND
So holy and so perfect is my love,
And thou opposed, being of no woman born,
And calls your grace usurper openly
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
Many a nobleman lies stark and stiff
Stafford, take her to thee.
uncapable of pity, void and empty
My heart to her but as guest-wise sojourn'd,
not such a fool to think what I list, nor I list
Enter MARIA and Clown
An host of tongues; but let ill tidings tell
Ay, marry, now my soul hath elbow-room;
So mightily betray'd! yet at the first
Could such inordinate and low desires,
From his most famed of famous ancestors,
From hence you be committed to the Tower;
Go to a gossips' feast and go with me;
As my true service shall deserve your love.
Love is your master, for he masters you:
Had time cohered with place or place with wishing,
Scarcity and want shall shun you;
Of middle summer, and I think they are given
A noble wish.
How purposed, sir, I pray you?
these are they. Thou art very Trinculo indeed! How
In deep designs and matters of great moment,
I see, sir, you have found the goldsmith now:
First, there is the Neapolitan prince.
Is all his soldiership. But he, sir, had the election:
As when thy lady and thy true love died,
The state of your affection; for your passions
Ay, with celerity, find Hector's purpose
and no more ado. Remember 'stoned,' and 'flayed alive.'
Exit
That were unworthy to behold the same?
Of plain old form is much disfigured;
Saint George's half-cheek in a brooch.
Would own a name too dear. O, that the gods
Sextus Pompeius spoil'd, we had not rated him
broached, and beard thee too. Look on me well: I
Yes, sir; as well as you dare patronage
'Twas never merry world since, of two usuries, the
And found at sea again! O Helicanus,
In what particular thought to work I know not;
And, princes, look you strongly arm to meet him.
As yours was put into you, ever casts
something: where did I leave?
Set on towards London, cousin, is it so?
Of officer and office, set all hearts i' the state
I will discharge thee.
and this they con perfectly in the phrase of war,
I do not know the matter: he is 'rested on the case.
That good convenience claims.
He's a soldier, and for one to say a soldier lies,
That the main harvest reaps: loose now and then
Beseeming such a wife as your fair daughter:
particulars therein to a total.
Nay, be brief
By going to Achilles:
Is outward sorrow; though I think the king
Nay, but he prated,
Let Rome in Tiber melt, and the wide arch
For he fears none.
kitchen-wench; marry, she had a better love to
And this my neighbour too?
Where's Bohemia? speak.
One all of luxury, an ass, a madman;
The multitude, beside themselves with fear,
Why, man, what is the matter?
For tears do stop the flood-gates of her eyes.
Whose heir my father was, and I am his.
Marry, well remember'd.
look to 't.
That Rome can make against them.
And with each end of thy blue bow dost crown
Corrupters of my faith! you shall no more
Good, speak to the mariners: fall to't, yarely,
Off goes his bonnet to an oyster-wench;
As any ear can hear. Come, let's not weep.
if thou beest capable of things serious, thou must
That she shall still be curst in company.
In resolution as I swore before.
Think'st thou I jest? Hold, take thou that, and that.
Les dames et demoiselles pour etre baisees devant
And temperately proceed to what you would
Clapp'd on the outward eye of fickle France,
wisdom? so.
'Tis beauty truly blent, whose red and white
Then in mine own person I die.
I bade the vile owl go learn me the tenor of the
that time the jealous rascally knave her husband
us friends; I will pursue the amity.
Wherein I am false I am honest; not true, to be true.
You had a bastard by Polixenes,
By accident most strange, bountiful Fortune,
On the curl'd clouds, to thy strong bidding task
daring the reports of my tongue.
So fare you well, my little good lord cardinal.
Came from the north and thus it did import:
not wounded? he was wont to come home wounded.
It was for Malcolm and for Donalbain
Love, whose month is ever May,
Fat paunches have lean pates, and dainty bits
Re-enter TREBONIUS
I slew him there.
For your broken shin.
From camp to camp through the foul womb of night
My lord, look here: look here, Lavinia:
Did hold his eyes lock'd in her crystal looks.
I shall digest it.
Hold up thy head, vile Scot, or thou art like
I'll die on him that says so but yourself.
Hath been most sound: I charge you by the law,
Go, sound thy trumpet in the market-place;
Cry 'Courage! to the field!' And thou hast talk'd
Prefer you to his daughter. Frame yourself
In God's name what are you, and how came you hither?
The fractions of her faith, orts of her love,
Sir, my daughter thinks very well of you;
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
Be witness to me, O thou blessed moon,
Strike; down with them; cut the villains' throats:
That she'll demand: a ring the county wears,
There's gold for thee.
Enter KATHARINA and GRUMIO
How dear a lover of my lord your husband,
I have to-night dispatched sixteen businesses, a
eat like wolves and fight like devils.
And wilt thou still be hammering treachery,
Like a proud river peering o'er his bounds?
Nothing!
Why, this is just
Enter KING RICHARD II and QUEEN, DUKE OF AUMERLE,  BUSHY, GREEN, BAGOT, LORD ROSS, and LORD WILLOUGHBY
[Kneeling] And to your royal grace, and the good queen,
Hence grew the general wreck and massacre;
Your highness shall repose you at the Tower:
Talk not to me: I will go sit and weep
and so was he: but we rose both at an instant and
Against to-morrow: my heart is wondrous light,
So I were out of prison and kept sheep,
Nerissa and the rest, stand all aloof.
name, Master tapster?
Ay, my lord.
Except I be by Silvia in the night,
With mine officer!
To set a form upon that indigest
To Oxford, or where'er these traitors are:
And in assemblies too.
That yarely frame the office. From the barge
I will not be the executioner.
A wither'd hermit, five-score winters worn,
For him attempting who was self-subdued;
And so tell your master.
sights: the men are not yet cold under water, nor
To think upon my pomp shall be my hell.
So great a charge from thine own custody?
And plodded like a man for working-days,
And,--do you mark me, sir?
and allowed your approach rather to wonder at you
How now, friend Eros!
But all his mind is bent to holiness,
Yea, and of this our life, swearing that we
without seeming so.
All this I speak in print, for in print I found it.
Is hard at study; pray now, rest yourself;
To cease thy suit, and leave me to my grief:
All parts of his subjection loyally. For Cloten,
came her like in Mytilene.
Where meeting with an old religious man,
You foolish shepherd, wherefore do you follow her,
My lord, methinks, is very long in talk.
So is he now in execution
Master Brook, I will first make bold with your
It should the good ship so have swallow'd and
Were factious for the house of Lancaster;
Merrily, merrily shall I live now
Master Three-pile the mercer, for some four suits of
And all their lands restored to them again
The commons haply rise, to save his life;
And here I swear by all the Roman gods,
For the offence he dies. This is our doom:
O, bid me leap, rather than marry Paris,
For Dickon thy master is bought and sold.'
To make a virtue of necessity
The winds and persecutions of the sky.
Yes.
To see thy son and heir more early down.
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane:
me; I will neither be faced nor braved. I say unto
Is now most still, most secret and most grave,
for the which you are to do me both a present and a
You have taken it wiselier than I meant you should.
For what, alas, can these my single arms?
O master! what a strange infection
My Lord of Norfolk,--
Whereon to practise your severity.
I am half afraid he will have need of washing; so
them to mending. They say the lady is fair; 'tis a
Poor living corse, closed in a dead man's tomb!
By our beards, if we had them, thou art.
staves, and strong ones: these are but switches to
villain: she fetches her breath as short as a
Approach, there! Ah, you kite! Now, gods
The snake lies rolled in the cheerful sun,
He is too good and fair for death and me:
Than he, and men, the earth, the heavens, and all:
Nay I'll to him again in name of Brook
my disposition? One inch of delay more is a
Assumed this age; indeed a banish'd man;
SCENE IV. A room in ANGELO's house.
Cassandra doth foresee; and I myself
praised: but reserve still to give, lest your
Many a time he danced thee on his knee,
And he nor sees nor hears us what we say.
It was some fiend; therefore, thou happy father,
Here where we are.
De foot, madame; et de coun.
And let us in, your king, whose labour'd spirits,
Yet be cheerful, knight: thou shalt eat a posset
Threaten the threatener and outface the brow
Here is the Talbot: who would speak with him?
I kiss the instrument of their pleasures.
Her assured credit. Blessed live you long!
Against the mind, the which he pricks and wounds
By bright Diana, whom we honour, all
means to pay Bohemia the visitation which he justly owes him.
Sent his poor queen to France, from whence she came,
I am descended of a gentler blood:
Now no discourse, except it be of love;
But I will watch you from such watching now.
But that he sees the Romans are but sheep:
That from it all consideration slips!
So shall we stay, mocking intended game,
And buss thee as thy wife. Misery's love,
God-den, our neighbours.
Marry sir, such claim as you would lay to your
Have,' said she, 'given his mistress that confection
Here comes Lorenzo: more of this hereafter.
To be his purveyor: but he rides well;
Of death, contagion, and unnatural sleep:
These news would cause him once more yield the ghost.
Disguise, I see, thou art a wickedness,
Enter TITUS, MARCUS, LAVINIA and Young LUCIUS, a boy
If not of hell, the heavens, sure, favour him.
Given to the common enemy of man,
Seek him with candle; bring him dead or living
Bringing the murderous coward to the stake;
Yea, bloody cloth, I'll keep thee, for I wish'd
Portia, forgive me this enforced wrong;
Is he well shipp'd?
When such strings jar, what hope of harmony?
Believe not all; or, if you must believe,
I have abandon'd Troy, left my possession,
That it shall render vengeance and revenge
Yes, good faith, every dram of it; and I will not
And set this unaccustom'd fight aside.
We will heal up all;
never two ladies loved as they do.
Good master doctor, see him safe convey'd
Iden, farewell, and be proud of thy victory. Tell
DON
Rather than want a spirit: appear and pertly!
Thou hast no figures nor no fantasies,
And so good morrow to you every one.
Whose worst was, that the noble Mortimer,
If what I now pronounce you have found true:
Draw lots who first shall die to lengthen life:
Out of a new-sad soul, that you vouchsafe
Draw, Benvolio; beat down their weapons.
And but attended by a simple guard,
Could not again undo: it was mine art,
And he wants wit that wants resolved will
They shouted thrice: what was the last cry for?
And craves to kiss your hand and take his leave.
Whom thou lovest best: see thou dissemble not.
Flattering me with impossibilities.
The crown of England, father, which is yours.
To sound the purpose of all their hearts,
thou findest him: I would we were well rid of this
Mine own, and not mine own.
Then none but I shall turn his jest to sorrow.
Exeunt
But I say there is no hope in't: our throats are
force of honesty can translate beauty into his
Now, madam, summon up your dearest spirits:
sharp sauce.
Nay, let me praise you while I have a stomach.
Exit
As may dishonour him; take heed of that;
I do love nothing in the world so well as you: is
I am thus resolved: on Sunday next you know
Impairing Henry, strengthening misproud York,
Of all the gentry; for the most part such
uncleanly, if courtiers were shepherds.
Did seek to murder me: and having woo'd
O, look upon me, sir,
So should I give consent to flatter sin.
Their nicely-gawded cheeks to the wanton spoil
not worthy to touch Fortune's fingers. Farewell.
All that's spoke is marr'd.
If now 'twere fit to do't. At the first sight
Where's Publius?
play is preferred. In any case, let Thisby have
And I shall.
Antony call; I see him rouse himself
And feeds from home; poor I am but his stale.
gods. Make the meat be beloved more than the man
But kindness, nobler ever than revenge,
What's this, what's this? Is this her fault or mine?
In following this usurping Henry.
I prithee, name the time, but let it not
She should have died hereafter;
Look out o' the other side your monument;
this world. Here, Robin, an if I die, I give thee
Villany, take your rapier.
church; take the priest, clerk, and some sufficient
And laid the love-juice on some true-love's sight:
May think anon it moves.
Then let them use us well: else let them know,
Each under each. A cry more tuneable
How! dare not! do not. Do you know, and dare not?
Gentlemen, that I may soon make good
Dark as your fortune is, and but disguise
At her life's rate.
I will buy me a son-in-law in a fair, and toll for
By tasting of our wrath? How of descent
To bring bad news: give to a gracious message.
daughter of most rare note: the report of her is
The ship is in her trim; the merry wind
Have you not spoken 'gainst the Duke of Cornwall?
Is this your speeding? nay, then, good night our part!
Judas I am, ycliped Maccabaeus.
Sole imperator and great general
Not a hair perish'd;
Would leave your griefs, and take my counsel.
And both return back to their chairs again:
Turn all her mother's pains and benefits
ANTONY, OCTAVIUS, and LEPIDUS, seated at a table
Dwells in the fickle grace of her he follows.
So many mermaids, tended her i' the eyes,
Amen.
If thou speak'st false,
The mighty gods defend thee! Thy lover,
An if what pleases him shall pleasure you.
I had forgot them--were two winking Cupids
What, doth she swoon? use means for her recovery.
though I did.
Our English troops retire, I cannot stay them:
neither here nor there.
No, not the duke's.
When the moon shone, we did not see the candle.
You shall have your desires with interest
Myself were mudded in that oozy bed
And our nobility will scorn the match.
Most detestable death, by thee beguil'd,
O, falsely, falsely murder'd!
For thee to murder: for my daughters, Richard,
defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
speech of him.
owl, a puttock, or a herring without a roe, I would
Why, Apemantus?
Persever not, but hear me, mighty kings.
I am at your grace's pleasure.
speak puling, like a beggar at Hallowmas. You were
Ay, sooth; so humbled
being so proper.
High on a stage be placed to the view;
And when I give occasion of offence,
Hath she had any more than one husband?
Within this mile and half.
Here they stand martyrs, slain in Cupid's wars;
Why, what should you fear?
Of Hamlet's wildness: so shall I hope your virtues
As Socrates' Xanthippe, or a worse,
But, tell me, where is princely Richmond now?
Enter ARIEL
The senators and patricians love him too:
We will, my lord.
Not unlike, sir, that may be.
Hooting and shrieking. When these prodigies
Good gods!
Moderate lamentation is the right of the dead,
What need she, when she hath made you write to
Exit MESSALA
I can scarce speak to thee; thou'lt not believe
That's as we list to grace him.
It is my Lord of Berkeley, as I guess.
For chair and dukedom, throne and kingdom say;
Thus may we gather honey from the weed,
And this shall seem, as partly 'tis, their own,
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
My point and period will be throughly wrought,
Yes, Helen, you might be my daughter-in-law:
Alas, a crimson river of warm blood,
Henceforth I never will be Romeo.
A greater power then we denies all this;
Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond,
A graceful gentleman; against whose person,
Thy other Edward dead, to quit my Edward;
You keep by land
Have smit my credit: I love and honour him,
His health is well sir.
From false to false, among false maids in love,
If I could temporize with my affection,
for he cares not what he puts into the press, when
My mind was troubled with deep melancholy.
And had, besides this gentleman in question,
Who shall tell Priam so, or Hecuba?
indeed, only for that cause they have been most
Seek to know no more.
The king, your father, was reputed for
wed, there will I shame her.
How! away!
For I have heard my grandsire say full oft,
Have been consider'd and debated on.
Sufficeth I am come to keep my word,
For, in my mind, you are much bound to him.
Take him and cut him out in little stars,
And him he play'd it for, he needs will be
And leave his master Antony: for this pains
For hands, to do Rome service, are but vain.
Honour and fortunes, keep with you, Lord Timon!
Exit
See, your guests approach:
Good my lord,
On sheep or oxen could I spend my fury.
and Poins; he is of too high a region; he knows too
That is, not bestow my youngest daughter
Digressing from the valour of a man;
That were to blow at fire in hope to quench it;
Enter PETER
And my large kingdom for a little grave,
Hereafter more. Bring me into your city,
That would upon the rack of this tough world
with half Windsor at his heels, to search for such a
What manner o' thing is your crocodile?
In embassy to his mother: his body's hostage
When my good falcon made her flight across
To spite a raven's heart within a dove.
To give it due content.
We came aboard.
And brings from him such offers of our peace
What then?
Spirits of peace, where are ye? are ye all gone,
I may not prove inferior to yourself.
come forth. Masters, I charge you, in the prince's
His brother and yours, abide all three distracted
Marry, presently.
Please it you,
By your leave.
Indeed, he looks younger than he did, by the loss of a beard.
Would step from this to this? Sense, sure, you have,
O, tell, tell.
What would your grace have done unto him now?
Sauf votre honneur, le Francois que vous parlez, il
The devil take thee, coward!
Alarums to the fight, wherein SIR HUMPHREY and WILLIAM STAFFORD are slain. Enter CADE and the rest
Throw your mistemper'd weapons to the ground,
Which is a pound of this poor merchant's flesh,
There is a cliff, whose high and bending head
Go to the fellow, good Alexas; bid him
From stem to stern: the boatswain whistles, and
There was a yielding,--this admits no excuse.
Why, then, let kibes ensue.
Spare none but such as go in clouted shoon;
Will offer night-oblations to thee. Thaisa,
Then must I think you would not have it so.
Great men oft die by vile bezonians:
They fight
And his page o' t' other side, that handful of wit!
Nor fetch in firing
More composition and fierce quality
And I'll no longer be a Capulet.
And he that's once denied will hardly speed.
If wounding, then it was to show my skill,
You and your crafts! you have crafted fair!
Respecting what a rancorous mind he bears
hate a drunken rogue.
But to prove to you that Helen loves him: she came
That this will prove a war; and you shall hear
A phoenix, captain and an enemy,
His riddle told not, lost his life:
Sport and repose lock from me day and night!
If any wretch have put this in your head,
Or my dear majesty your queen here, think,
And I, delivering you, am satisfied
Some dozen Romans of us and your lord--
Says to 'em, if King Pericles
Knocking
And rob me of a happy mother's name?
desire is boundless and the act a slave to limit.
Are you ready, sir?
For your best health and recreation.
Ah, what a sign it is of evil life,
You must forsake this room, and go with us:
Must I not serve a long apprenticehood
You sleep in peace, the tyrant being slain;
Exeunt OTHELLO and DESDEMONA
Come, cousin, canst thou quake, and change thy colour,
A goodly prize, fit for the devil's grace!
That touches this my first-born son and heir!
the grund for it; ay, or go to death; and ay'll pay
How do you, madam? how do you, my good lady?
He that commends me to mine own content
Commends me to the thing I cannot get.
then have we a prescription to die when death is our physician.
When at Philippi he found Brutus slain.
'Tis south the city mills--bring me word thither
And yet but justice; for though
Remember your bold life too.
If you have tears, prepare to shed them now.
For then, 'tis like I should forget myself:
And the quaint mazes in the wanton green
That wouldst thou holily; wouldst not play false,
With bag and baggage: many thousand on's
And out of you she sees herself more proper
Merry or sad shall't be?
The quality of her passion shall require,
What colour for my visitation shall I
Subdue my worthiest self. The witch shall die:
Because his fathers are more beautiful?
We hate the prince of Tyre, and thou must kill him:
They'll mar my counterfeiting.
The clock hath strucken twelve upon the bell;
religiously; and, as a certain father saith,--
he talked very wisely, but I regarded him not; and
Make rich the ribs, but bankrupt quite the wits.
He shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for
in his dominion, could not be so cruel to me, as
Falls and dies
Sly frantic wretch, that holp'st to make me great,
[To EDMUND]  Then shall you go no further.
Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house,
To praise my noble act; I hear him mock
It was, so please your highness.
resemble you in that. If a Jew wrong a Christian,
Forgive me in thine own particular;
Thy tooth is not so keen,
Truly, an obedient lady:
out of my kingdom: go to, carry this.
No, no, my heart will burst, and if I speak:
Ay, rather than I'll shame my mother's womb.
[Rising]  Never, Regan:
Night and silence.--Who is here?
What's his name?
When I have most need to employ a friend,
The town will rise: God's will, lieutenant, hold!
The happiest gift that ever marquess gave,
To quit the bloody wrongs upon her foes.
And we shall feed like oxen at a stall,
No, my good Lord; he hath forsook the court,
Enter a Pursuivant
Where they most breed and haunt, I have observed,
he wants money.
We have, great Agamemnon, here in Troy
foul with me, Pistol, I will scour you with my
Uncover, dogs, and lap.
I cannot name the disease; and it is caught
with him; I'll have an action of battery against
Open the tomb, lay me with Juliet.
Is she so hot a shrew as she's reported?
Made it a fool and beggar. The two kings,
But when he saw my best alarum'd spirits,
White-handed mistress, one sweet word with thee.
Whether dost thou profess thyself, a knave or a fool?
O thou, the earthly author of my blood,
O melancholy!
Issue to me; that the contending kingdoms
There end thy brave, and turn thy face in peace;
First, madam, he is well.
As far as to the sepulchre of Christ,
Thus, while the vulture of sedition
She sings as sweetly as a nightingale:
They say, best men are moulded out of faults;
O, here they come.
thinks a man always going to bed, and says, 'God
Is prisoner to the bishop here, at whose hands
Embrace we then this opportunity
She that being anger'd, her revenge being nigh,
A thing, my lord!
To calm this tempest whirling in the court;
again. I go, sir; but I would not have you to think
Sufficeth not that we are brought to Rome,
Well, while I live I'll fear no other thing
For they shall taste our comfort.
not an eagle's talon in the waist; I could have
What is my name? Whither am I going? Where do I
And wouldst do so, I think, should we encounter
Well, well.
So soon be drawn, nor did he think it meet
hath made her mistress of the feast, and she lays it
When did the tiger's young ones teach the dam?
Prithee, tell me one thing first.
Ever at the best, hearing well of your lordship.
In bringing up my child.
And Hymen now with luckier issue speed's
loves him. Heaven and earth! Edmund, seek him
foolish-hanging of thy nether lip, that doth warrant
In motion of no less celerity
And yet dear too, because I bought mine own.
Avaunt, perplexity! What shall we do,
Most dread liege,
Good uncle, take you in this barbarous Moor,
What colour are your eyebrows?
Then I lie not.
The very virtue of compassion in thee,
That diamond upon your finger, say
She shall, Lucentio. Come, gentlemen, let's go.
the king's laws in now the king's quarrel: where
I thank you, sir. Where then do you know best
Sleep, Richmond, sleep in peace, and wake in joy;
Not in deed, madam; for I can do nothing
Shall not be wink'd at, how shall we stretch our eye
Of time, of numbers and due course of things,
SCENE II. The same.
'Tis nothing but conceit, my gracious lady.
I doubt he will be dead or ere I come.
Where hearing should not latch them.
And when we have our armours buckled on,
Lust is but a bloody fire,
We should profane the service of the dead
But, as in health, come to my natural taste,
Nothing I; but God send every one their heart's desire!
Is there no manners left among maids? will they
And ye shall find me thankful. Lead the way, lords:
To bid his young son welcome to his grave?
nettle, danger, we pluck this flower, safety. 'The
And tell me who is victor, York or Warwick?
Offering KENT his cap
And let the emperor dandle him for his own.
Which you denied me: was that done like Cassius?
Nor how to shroud yourself from enemies?
Ay.
that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
will put it, as they say, to fortuna de la guerra.
Myself, my servant and, I fear me, you:
As from a bear a man would run for life,
the least a month; and he heartily prays some
Keeping some gold
Which was so strongly urged past my defence.
Nay, be thou sure I'll well requite thy kindness,
What he deserves of you and me I know;
Ere sun-rise, prayers from preserved souls,
If I go to him, with my armed fist I'll pash him o'er the face.
paramour for a sweet voice.
Down fell their hose.
In this I do not call your faith in question
Let Diomedes bear him,
here lies the point:  if I drown myself wittingly,
years. You have seen cruel proof of this man's
Many a battle have I won in France,
That love the fundamental part of state
He prettily and aptly taunts himself:
Exeunt
Re-enter RUGBY
I understand thee well; and be thou sure,
prince, here is good broken music.
Exit
Not a man of those but he hath the wit to lose his hair.
For mine own part, unfold a dangerous speech,
But, I pray, sir why am I beaten?
Let me not stay a jot for dinner; go get it ready.
Now to guard sure their master.
This Cloten was a fool, an empty purse;
He is twenty men to one.
confidence than her reputation: and, to bar your
Why do you look on us, and shake your head,
Why, then will I no more:
This cold night will turn us all to fools and madmen.
Rather than they shall pound us up: our gates,
For by his rusty outside he appears
Doth Silvia know that I am banished?
To each word a warbling note:
Whose golden touch could soften steel and stones,
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
drink, and drink sooner than pray: and yet, zounds,
Of hair-breadth scapes i' the imminent deadly breach,
I think she has: certain it is I liked her,
But have you never found my brother's way
To stain the temper of my knightly sword.
I sometimes do believe, and sometimes do not;
The purpose I then follow'd. That I was he,
And art mine own. I know not why, wherefore,
Good gentleman! the wrongs I have done thee stir
valour. Challenge me the count's youth to fight
The treasure of her honour. No more. To what end?
the storm. And art thou living, Stephano? O
Get you gone.
Who, my cousin Cressida?
Give me a sword, I'll chop off my hands too;
The stealth of our most mutual entertainment
Pretty and full of view; yea, haply, near
Where is she gone? Haply, despair hath seized her,
I' fecks!
Noble Marcius!
A paltry, insolent fellow!
Royal wench!
How now! what is in you? why dost thou tear it?
I see that men make ropes in such a scarre
well; another virtuous, yet I am well; but till all
Why or for what these nobles were committed
That she is dead. Nurses are not the fates,
Why, very well then; you must not think then that I am drunk.
Although my will distaste what it elected,
And humming water must o'erwhelm thy corpse,
The Duke of Suffolk, William de la Pole.
of remorse in me.
Imagine 'twere the right Vincentio.
Exeunt
And, hoodwink'd as thou art, will lead thee on
To AGAMEMNON
Might easiliest harbour in? Thou blessed thing!
The fragments, scraps, the bits and greasy relics
Weakness possesseth me, and I am faint.
sell him an hour from her beholding, I, considering
Glory is like a circle in the water,
That all the miseries which nature owes
For then she never looks upon her lure.
O, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful
Ah, countrymen! if when you make your prayers,
Enter DON JOHN and CONRADE
Why come you not? what! multitudes, and fear?
'Though all at once cannot
See suitors following and not look behind,
To pray for this good man and for his issue,
Which, though thou wouldst deny, denies thee vantage.
all sorts enchantingly beloved, and indeed so much
'Twill fill your stomachs; please you eat of it.
Exit
mistress is a respected woman.
He shall appear in proof.
He receives comfort like cold porridge.
Our tongues and sorrows do sound deep
I humbly take my leave.
[Drawing]  How now! a rat? Dead, for a ducat, dead!
affection in, it runs out.
Yet looks he like a king: behold, his eye,
'Tis good, sir: you are very short with us;
To my house. Fare you well.
You have, by fortune and his highness' favours,
And sent her enemies unto the grave.
every man should beat thee: I think thou wast
Thou art thyself, though not a Montague.
O, in a tomb where never scandal slept,
Hath it been owed and worn. This is his wife;
What is the opinion of Pythagoras concerning wild fowl?
Exit
What say'st thou, noble heart?
Sudden, malicious, smacking of every sin
Not better than he, by her own report.
The dews of heaven fall thick in blessings on her!
And Hastings as he favours Edward's cause!
I'll stay with patience; but the time is long.
I'll stay a month longer. I am a fellow o' the
'Tis not for fear but anger that thy cheeks
And set me up in hope? But hush! no more.
was in the basket!
Barr'st me my way in Rome?
And pour'd them down before him.
Plantagenet is thine;' who though I speak it before
We four set upon some dozen--
Some proper man, I hope: who was it, mother?
Say, where shall's lay him?
Nurse calls within
And for my sister and her princely sons,
the ears of profiting, that what thou speakest may
That they will guard you, whether you will or no,
The offer of this time, I cannot promise
To see these Grecian lords!--why, even already
Lackbeard there, he and I shall meet: and, till
With one man beckon'd from the rest below,
May fit us to our shape: if this should fail,
Saunder Simpcox, an if it please you, master.
Your right of birth, your empery, your own.
Enter CERES
And I for Rosalind.
As we greet modern friends withal; and say,
And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn,
crept into any alderman's thumb-ring: a plague of
To sports, to wildness and much company.
Flatter my sorrows with report of it;
Exeunt, marching
Hark ye;
To the hopeful execution do I leave you
Like powder in a skitless soldier's flask,
Tamer than sleep, fonder than ignorance,
And with him are the Lord Aumerle, Lord Salisbury,
Is't not possible to understand in another tongue?
To be high-steward; next, the Duke of Norfolk,
To fetch a ladder, by the which your love
Whate'er I read to her, I'll plead for you
nose for thy speeches?
Sings
Were but his picture left amongst you here,
A short alarum
taken against me a most just exception; but yet, I
camest thou to be the siege of this moon-calf? can
To BIANCA
farther than to say 'do you in faith?' I wear out
She sent for you by Dromio home to dinner.
Which with the heart there cools and ne'er returneth
It hath struck.
From weary wars against the barbarous Goths;
Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver-shedding tears,
A cousin-german to great Priam's seed;
If that be true, I shall see my boy again;
He hath not money for these Irish wars,
Dead art thou! Alack! my child is dead;
business, but he would not hear my excuse. I am
Have I done since I went.
Exit Servant
Will it never be morning?
No.
So please your majesty, I would I could
To what end? He would make but a sport of it and
At such a time, with all the rest retold,
With full as many signs of deadly hate,
Over my thigh, and sigh'd, and kiss'd; and then
Marry, she says your dog was a cur, and tells you
No shame but mine: I must, forsooth, be forced
Farewell, sweet masters both; I must be gone.
Enter BRABANTIO, OTHELLO, IAGO, RODERIGO, and Officers
your good heart! I wished your venison better; it
Thy Clarence he is dead that kill'd my Edward;
My soul and body on the action both!
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
What, ho, Mistress Page! come you and the old woman
I cannot kiss, that is the humour of it; but, adieu.
The Volsces are in arms.
One word, sweet queen:
Out, scab!
Giving the crown
Agreed.
The fresh and yet unbruised Greeks do pitch
Courage, my masters! honour now or never!
thou been this month?
Please you to do't,
Enter Citizens,  and c
nothing to a man.
I lay me down a little while to breathe;
I'll have the current in this place damm'd up;
Speaks nobly of her.
should I anatomize him to thee as he is, I must
That thou dost love my daughter from thy soul:
Solemn music
Who sent you hither? Wherefore do you come?
Now must the world point at poor Katharina,
And in a tedious sampler sew'd her mind:
Or, if you do not, make the bridal bed
For in a night the best part of my power,
And then do execution on the watch.
Love and languish for his sake:
That knows the tinct and multiplying medicine,
That most are willing. If any such be here--
Hail, heaven!
But now the arbitrator of despairs,
And thus I took the vantage of those few,
Sir, I most humbly pray you to deliver
Beauty doth varnish age, as if new-born,
Some other time for that. Beloved Regan,
What kind of man he is.
So I might live one hour in your sweet bosom.
but if she be less than an honest woman, she is
Till I shall see you in your soldier's dress,
going to bed, or kiln-hole, to whistle off these
Dost disobey the wife of Jupiter;
Proper deformity seems not in the fiend
whoreson dog! you slave! you cur!
O, belike it is the Bishop of Carlisle.
The fundamental reasons of this war,
But at this instant he is sick my lord,
His humble ambition, proud humility,
That our swift-winged souls may catch the king's;
gentleman of Athens, thy very bountiful good lord
bastinado and made Lucifer cuckold and swore the
say to me now, an I were your very very Rosalind?
They tend the crown, yet still with me they stay.
The deserts of Bohemia?
would change my humanity with a baboon.
in the reeky painting, sometime like god Bel's
He'll soon find means to make the body follow.
Then for the truth and plainness of the case.
Mother, you have my father much offended.
Did then adhere, and yet you would make both:
And speaking it, he wistly look'd on me,
Bless'd his three sons with his victorious arm,
And come to Padua, careless of your life?
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
This ring, good sir, alas, it is a trifle!
Go see this rumourer whipp'd. It cannot be
Still close as sure.
Before mine uncle: I'll observe his looks;
Should be inheritrix in Salique land:
Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good sir,
Empty the basket, I say!
Know you how much the people may be moved
The colour of her hair: bring me word quickly.
Ah, madam, 'tis too true: and that is worse,
false thanes,
And every true heart weeps for't: all that dare
Why, I tell thee, I care not though he burn himself
thee, Orlando, for my husband: there's a girl goes
Your native town you enter'd like a post,
With all my heart.
And would not be awaked.
'Tis, my good lord.
to thirteen, this spirit walks in.
And all the peers', for surety of our leagues.
God will in justice ward you as his soldiers;
How, madam! Russians!
Dying like men, though buried in your dunghills,
Your ships are not well mann'd;
bottom were as deep as hell, I should down. I had
Go sleep, and hear us.
A priest there offering to it his own heart.
world before he was sent for, yet was his mother
To execute upon him. Sir, this gentleman
Till I had made mine own occasion mellow,
Holding Corioli in the name of Rome,
Peace your tattlings! What is 'fair,' William?
The prince of darkness is a gentleman:
Hath Doreus prisoner,
Because sweet flowers are slow and weeds make haste.
But this our purpose now is twelve month old,
Hath hurt me more than had he killed me dead:
If you had won it, certainly you had.
Of any thing the image tell me that
I'll then nor give nor hazard aught for lead.
What's that to me? my father was no traitor:
Yea, beg a hair of him for memory,
Hang upon his pent-house lid;
You are to blame, my lord, to rate her so.
Such friends are thine enemies, knave.
Only be patient till we have appeased
Exeunt severally; HAMLET dragging in POLONIUS
pipe; no, the bagpipe could not move you: he sings
a whole bookful of these quondam carpet-mangers,
We two in great amazedness will fly:
He'll wrest the sense and hold us here all day:
'Tis like the forced gait of a shuffling nag.
It struck mine ear most terribly.
Write till your ink be dry, and with your tears
should be put into the lanthorn. How is it else the
Now 'gins to bite the spirits. I do beseech you
I do, sans question.
That cause, fair nephew, that imprison'd me
Myself condemned and myself excused.
Why, go to bed, and sleep.
Stinking and fly-blown lies here at our feet.
When, Lucius, when? awake, I say! what, Lucius!
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
To make prescription for a kingdom's worth.
You'll turn a child again.
'Tis true.
The buckles on his breast, reneges all temper,
He must fight singly to-morrow with Hector, and is so
Come, now towards Chertsey with your holy load,
What is unsettled in the king.
Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry,--as
She Phebes me: mark how the tyrant writes.
Enter the DUCHESS OF YORK, with the two children of CLARENCE
amazed; call all your senses to you; defend your
being well-advised.
A good soft pillow for that good white head
That Thaisa am I, supposed dead
What's the matter, woman?
What, not between Troilus and Hector? Do you know a
How to lament the cause. I'll beg one boon,
her so much as sip on a cup with the proudest of
Exeunt
Be thus to them.
heaviness: of this contradiction you shall now be
And, after some dispatch in hand at court,
These lords are visited; you are not free,
Before Angiers well met, brave Austria.
Were such things here as we do speak about?
'Tis an ill office for a gentleman,
again for all the coin in thy father's exchequer.
And flesh his spirit in a warlike soil,
A dance
Dear brother, how shall Bona be revenged
That I am ready to distrust mine eyes
here she comes.
By long and vehement suit I was seduced
counsellor?
SPOKEN BY PROSPERO
And, Will you, nill you, I will marry you.
not men o' their words: they told me I was every
I crave no more than what your highness offer'd,
When his fair angels would salute my palm;
Herald, away; and throughout every town
pavilion in the posteriors of this day, which the
beggar: who overcame he? the beggar. The
Were it not better,
It is a deed in fashion. Hark thee, Clitus.
They brought one Pinch, a hungry lean-faced villain,
Too like the sire for ever being good.
Him and his worth and our great need of him
Thou know'st that Banquo, and his Fleance, lives.
By you relieved, would force me to my duty:
It is the purpose that makes strong the vow;
Not know my voice! O time's extremity,
I can no further crawl, no further go;
Of something nearly that concerns yourselves.
So, get thee gone, that I may know my grief;
Give some supportance to the bending twigs.
the parings.
is too soft for him, say I	draw our throne into a
Your way is shorter;
A messenger with letters from the doctor,
His counsel now might do me golden service;
How many prodigal bits have slaves and peasants
Diseased nature oftentimes breaks forth
been vicious
Have I been patron to Antipholus,
I prithee, shepherd, if that love or gold
See'st thou this object, Kent?
Patience unmoved! no marvel though she pause;
Naught rests for me in this tumultuous strife
They shall be apprehended by and by.
Have patience, madam: there's no doubt his majesty
My business is a word or two with Claudio.
And Bolingbroke my sorrow's dismal heir:
One would have lingering wars with little cost;
And will awake him from his melancholy.
Takes AGAMEMNON aside
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Yet Hermia still loves you: then be content.
O God, O God! that e'er this tongue of mine,
What is that curt'sy worth? or those doves' eyes,
What is 'lapis,' William?
When King Cophetua loved the beggar-maid!
Gelding the opposed continent as much
Being banish'd for't, he came unto my hearth;
Enter certain Senators, and pass over
a charitable office.
Injurious time now with a robber's haste
Well, if ever thou dost fall from this faith, thou
fellowship: I had as lief have a reed that will do
The smallest monstrous mouse that creeps on floor,
Come, go along; my wife is coming yonder.
Falstaff, and drink canary with him.
'Twere needful I denied it. My affairs
Believe so much in him, that he is young
Therefore be gone; solicit me no more.
Do, and be witness to 't.
learned that of me.
So buxom, blithe, and full of face,
Enter CAPULET and Nurse
Turn to another, this shall slay them both:
Whence are you, sir? Has the porter his eyes in his
If we compose well here, to Parthia:
Aside
to me and say, after to-morrow, 'This is my glove,'
Must first induce you to believe: whose strength
To bar my master's heirs in true descent,
Why dost not speak? what, deaf? not a word?
Upon whose leaves are drops of new-shed blood
When he might act the woman in the scene,
Quitting thee thereby of ten thousand shames,
Oh! oh! a while, but ha! ha! ha!
serviteur; excusez-moi, je vous supplie, mon
that he comes not along with her.
Our indiscretion sometimes serves us well,
We have lost
And had I twenty times so many foes,
And here my naked breast; within, a heart
What warlike voice,
And often did beguile her of her tears,
It did not lie there when I went to bed.
This is the hand which, with a vow'd contract,
Enter AJAX
He did discharge a horrible oath; whose tenor
Exeunt some of them
rare enginer! If Troy be not taken till these two
Thou little know'st how thou dost startle me,
That is another's lawful promised love.
Call in the messengers. As I am Egypt's queen,
Falls
And at this time most easy 'tis to do't,
Do like this worst.
And yet I know not how to get the crown,
Besides two thousand ducats by the year
augmentation of the Indies: you have not seen such
And when it's writ, for my sake read it over,
let me have a child at fifty, to whom Herod of Jewry
The news is not so tart.--I'll read, and answer.
No more, I say: if thou dost plead for him,
Strike a free march to Troy! with comfort go:
That she fordid herself.
He were mine enemy? what friend of mine
Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and two or three Lords, like foresters
Ha!
Observe his inclination in yourself.
Sir, I could perceive nothing at all from her; no,
Or with the clamorous report of war
Here the lady sings a Welsh song
vile that will not love his country? If any, speak;
Where hast thou led me? I perhaps speak this
A goodly city is this Antium. City,
Till then, 'tis wisdom to conceal our meaning.
To be no better than a homely swain;
And what obscured in this fair volume lies
Corrupt, corrupt, and tainted in desire!
In dear employment: therefore hence, be gone:
keep thy word justly; swear not; commit not with
ninescore and seventeen pounds; of which he made
SCENE III. Bohemia. A desert country near the sea.
I'll interrupt his reading.
To evil should be done by none:
a-birding; she desires you once more to come to her
fantastical; the wedding, mannerly-modest, as a
Painting, sir, I have heard say, is a mystery; and
Where as the king and queen do mean to hawk.
O, my good lord, the Duke of Cornwall's dead:
And now, good sweet, say thy opinion,
The galloping of horse: who was't came by?
Get on your cloak, and haste you to Lord Timon;
me to the coming on of time, with 'Hail, king that
Adieu, adieu, adieu.
This thou shalt answer; I know thee, Roderigo.
A cunning man did calculate my birth
Are natural breath: but, howsoe'er you have
Let Lion, Moonshine, Wall, and lovers twain
since I was three year old, conversed with a
ACT V
Attending but the signal to begin.
SCENE V. Corioli. A street.
necessary and meet me to-morrow night in Eastcheap;
But I beseech your grace that I may know
If that I do not dream or be not frantic,--
With gobbets of thy mother's bleeding heart.
have spoken truer than you purposed.
He scatter'd not in ears, but grafted them,
I left him almost speechless; and broke out
And I shall lose my life for want of language;
He kneels down
O Lord, I cannot speak to him for weeping;
Bastards and all.
To such a greeting: villain am I none;
What is the matter here?
To urge the thing held as a ceremony?
No hat upon his head; his stockings foul'd,
When you are call'd, return. Now, the Lord help,
Falls on the bed, and dies
discontent: his comfortable temper has forsook him;
Let him thank me, that holp to send him thither;
parted their fathers. Will it please you to see the
For the which she wept heartily and said she cared
out moonshine, find out moonshine.
poets, cannot
Nay, it's no matter for that.
I am sorry that by hanging thee I can
And, Rivers, so were you. Was not your husband
And, in good time, here comes the noble duke.
But I will prove that two on's are as good
I am not bid for love; they flatter me:
Excellent! I smell a device.
Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him?
Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't
Faith, there had been many great men that have
Writes not so tedious a style as this.
And his contract by deputy in France;
If you find a man there, he shall die a flea's death.
Besides her urging of her wreck at sea,--
O, that a man should speak those words to me!
March gently on to meet him.
Heaven would in little show.
For all the mud in Egypt: have you heard it?
I come about my brother.
He had none:
Alarum. Enter SUFFOLK with MARGARET in his hand
In spite of spite, alone upholds the day.
Antony
Note him good Charmian, 'tis the man; but note him:
Well, I say Troilus is Troilus.
But thou from loving England art so far,
Makes merit her election, and doth boil,
And wish for all that, that I had not killed them;
What is't thou canst demand?
Sir John Falstaff, serve Got, and leave your
Exit
O Lord, sir, I'll be sworn upon all the books in
Thou toad, thou toad, where is thy brother Clarence?
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH
Since that our brother dubb'd them gentlewomen.
'Suum cuique' is our Roman justice:
forswear arms. The virtue of this jest will be, the
Since I have your good leave to go away,
O Cleopatra! thou art taken, queen:
I could afflict you farther.
Of thy dear husband, than that horrid act
give satiety a fresh appetite, loveliness in favour,
Will you come to bed, my lord?
Subdues me quite. Even till now,
Why, my sweet lord?
Whom I unnaturally shall disinherit.
to't like French falconers, fly at any thing we see:
'Tis like a pardon after execution:
unmannerly sadness in his youth. I had rather be
ballads; we'll buy the other things anon.
For when the noble Caesar saw him stab,
But in these nice sharp quillets of the law,
gowns, petticoats, nor caps, nor any petty
O, Heaven be judge how I love Valentine,
Dexterously, good madonna.
They are not ever jealous for the cause,
wink and hold out mine iron: it is a simple one; but
Fall'n on the inventors' reads: all this can I
Poor sick Fidele!
therefore he is a traitor.
Advanced in time to great and high estate,
Truly, she must be given, or the marriage is not lawful.
Passing these flats, are taken by the tide;
For so we are inform'd, with new opinions,
O noble fellow!
And if thou be not then created York,
Of all thy suitors, here I charge thee, tell
To a most base and vile-concluded peace.
To entreat your grace but in a small request,
And, certes, the text most infallibly concludes it.
A look untender? If't be summer news,
beggar's. The catastrophe is a nuptial: on whose
Take to you, as your predecessors have,
And you shall find I like it: wait attendance
And power i' the truth o' the cause.
One part of Aquitaine is bound to us,
My courage try by combat, if thou darest,
The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever;
And no more words till they have flow'd their fill.
The housekeeper, the hunter, every one
Ah balmy breath, that dost almost persuade
Dost thou not bring me letters from the friar?
How can the law forbid my tongue to curse?
Against our substitute! Let this friar be found.
the greatest admiration of the universal world, when
In the state of honourable marriage:
Benedick's face,--
Another stain, as big as hell can hold,
It is not my consent,
Anon, sir. Pray stay a little, my lord.
the ass: if thou wert the ass, thy dulness would
And may ye both be suddenly surprised
A natural and prompt alacrity
But by immortal Providence she's mine:
For men so old as we to keep the peace.
If it? please your honour, I know not well what they
Upon the hempen tackle ship-boys climbing;
That commonly rebels. 'Tis a good hand,
sin, then many an old host that I know is damned: if
Than seek the end of one, thou shalt no sooner
A voluntary zeal and an unurged faith
Of burning youth.
You saw my master wink and laugh upon you?
Without indurance, further.
Farewell: if heart's presages be not vain,
Ne'er look'd but on my back; when they shall see
a man? Shallow, shallow. A better instance, I say; come.
Filth as thou art, with human care, and lodged thee
Which for things true weeps things imaginary.
They come like sacrifices in their trim,
stand for his place. He received in the repulse of
Sweet prince, let me go no farther to mine answer:
Why came I hither but to that intent?
When haply he shall hear that she is gone,
I' faith, I am sorry that thou art not well.
Let not our ships and number of our men
PRINCE HENRY draws it out, and finds it to be a bottle of sack
Cannot be ill, cannot be good: if ill,
book; and we will afterwards ork upon the cause with
Come, I must bring you to our captain's cave:
What can be avoided
Advise you what you say; the minister is here.
Hath he not lost much wealth by wreck of sea?
What wouldst thou have, boor? what: thick-skin?
Hath a distracted and most wretched being,
Didst thou not say he lied?
cannot cog and say thou art this and that, like a
Impose me to what penance your invention
not very well?
How can you say to me, I am a king?
good armour; and now will he lie ten nights awake,
Profaned, dishonour'd, and the third usurp'd.
Seems, madam! nay it is; I know not 'seems.'
As I in duty love my king and country!
Ay, to eleven; and brought them down again. But
To HENRY BOLINGBROKE
Sweet Imogen?
The beauty that is borne here in the face
Your mother's hand shall right your mother's wrong.
My motion, have it not in my tongue: but yet
sack finely.
And let it be mine honour, good my lord,
Came he right now to sing a raven's note,
[Aside]  So help me God, as I intend it not!
That he believes himself: so do not I.
So may a thousand actions, once afoot.
Unless the nightly owl or fatal raven:
When he shall hear she died upon his words,
From Clifford's and Northumberland's pursuit:
Should say 'Be good to Rome,' they charged him even
Take special care my greetings be deliver'd.
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
grace say so: and, my lord, he speaks most vilely
But his red colour hath forsook his cheeks.
Your reason?
Who you saw sitting by me on the turf,
And not the king exiled thee; or suppose
Why, fool, I meant not thee; I meant thy master.
What if I do not? as, indeed, I do not;
Wilt live, fly after: and like an arrow shot
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
My favour were as great; be witness this.
Have, for the gilt of France,--O guilt indeed!
His life I gave him and did thereto add
'Tis not the trial of a woman's war,
Within two days for this.
Go softly on.
More evident than this; for this was stolen.
Now, master sheriff, what is your will with me?
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
fixture of thy foot would give an excellent motion
There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry:
And let us not be dainty of leave-taking,
How now, how now! what's the matter?
greediness would afflict thee, and oft thou shouldst
Exit with the body
From foreign princes.
And with my hand I seal my true heart's love.
They want their porridge and their fat bull-beeves:
How now, my masters! have you chose this man?
Till Hymen's torch be lighted: but vain;
To meet Northumberland and the prelate Scroop,
If I would lose it for a revenue
With that which, but by being so retired,
auricular assurance have your satisfaction; and
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
And not being able to buy out his life
Come, come, you know I gave it you even now.
Exeunt from the walls
O, this is trim!
Still cupboarding the viand, never bearing
That I neither feel how she should be loved nor
In those freckles live their savours:
Whilst our commission from Rome is read,
And there's for twitting me with perjury.
praised for my jealousy! Eleven o'clock the hour.
Yes.
For bearing arms, for stirring up my subjects,
That means not, hath not, or is not in love!
The scatter'd foe that hopes to rise again;
you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
And what this fourteen years no razor touch'd,
be looked against. Now, could I could come to her
I robb'd his wound of it; behold it stain'd
Tut, she's a lamb, a dove, a fool to him!
Your office, sergeant; execute it.
Drum heard
O husband, hear me! ay, alack, how new
Day, my lord.
When thou wakest, let love forbid
I can, at any unseasonable instant of the night,
La you now, you hear:
How! gone!
This is his majesty; say your mind to him:
This is the deadly spite that angers me;
woman with picking thy pocket! why, thou whoreson,
world; let his nobility remain in's court. I am for
have worn your eyes almost out in the service, you
Here, my lord, a trifle of our love.
Happily
Open the gates; here's Gloucester that would enter.
dissembled in such a gown. I am not tall enough to
I cry you mercy: I mean the lord protector.
May answer my good will and your good welcome here.
Enter LUCIANA and ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
Kind Tyrrel, am I happy in thy news?
'Tis a lucky day, boy, and we'll do good deeds on't.
wild of Kent hath brought three hundred marks with
The prince and Claudio promised by this hour
Alas, I then have chid away my friend!
It lies in you, my lord, to bring me in some grace,
Well, be't so, prithee.
O, Nicholas Hopkins?
For you or any: how far I have proceeded,
kill'd him.
to breed it in?--When came this to you? who
The armourer and his man, to enter the lists,
If then true lovers have been ever cross'd,
Your praises are too large: but that your youth,
And she can have no more than all I have:
For the close night doth play the runaway,
Enter KING RICHARD III
Nor are you therein, by my life, deceived,
Thou shalt not do't.
Sooth, madam, I hear nothing.
It is; and all the rest are countesses.
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio? Marcellus?
And made their bends adornings: at the helm
In the great hand of God I stand; and thence
'Twill, a not be seen in him there; there the men
Bolingbroke!'
I will embrace him with a soldier's arm,
Never, never, never, never, never!
This is strange now: do you two know how you are
By that fair sun which shows me where thou stand'st,
The Ladies make signs to CORIOLANUS
This speech of yours hath moved me,
And lend no ear unto my purposes.
Re-enter RODERIGO
And finds his trusty Thisby's mantle slain:
It is no matter.
By that which he will utter?
Come then, and take the last warmth of my lips.
have banged the youth into dumbness. This was
How say you? O, I should remember him: does he not
Which haply by much company might be urged:
Never, never. Come, away, away!
My true preserver, and a loyal sir
On equal terms to give him chastisement?
Like goodly buildings left without a roof
Is every breath a death; and thus, unknown,
First, madam, I entreat true peace of you,
I see a cherub that sees them. But, come; for
That my ability may undergo
Kisses him
What noise is this? Not dead? not yet quite dead?
In mine own country, lords.
The confident and over-lusty French
the old Robin Hood of England: they say many young
And 'tis this fever that keeps Troy on foot,
The addition nobly ever!
Of that tongue's utterance, yet I know the sound:
necessary. It is said, 'many a man knows no end of
sympathy? Let it suffice thee, Mistress Page,--at
Half a share.
An you love me, let's do't: I am dog at a catch.
There's no offence, my lord.
A knocking heard
and afeard to speak! run away for shame, Alisander.
the carpets laid, and every thing in order?
A widow, husbandless, subject to fears,
O, that your lordship were but now confessor
Exeunt KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and SUFFOLK
I hope all will be well. We must be patient: but I
Thrown out his angle for my proper life,
Then, for his mind, be Edward England's king:
And from her womb children of divers kind
No care to your best courses. Go, I pray you,
beard is turned white with the news: you may buy
Yes, I agree, and thank you for your motion.
Sorry I am my noble cousin should
Thrust these reproachful speeches down his throat
And 'tis a kind of good deed to say well:
See, see, thou hast shot off one of Taurus' horns.
To be of worth and worthy estimation
Being Leonatus, doth import so much.
From me, whose love was of that dignity
Farewell, good Pompey. Commend me to the prison,
Who should that be? belike, unlook'd-for friends.
O valiant lord, the Duke of York is slain!
When shall we see again?
So stale and cheap to vulgar company,
They, that they cannot help: how shall they credit
Make me no more ado, but all embrace him:
'Tis so; and that self chain about his neck
Say not so, Agrippa:
Wherefore, sweet-heart? what's your metaphor?
at Master Page's.
O, contain yourself
Then be at peace except ye thirst for blood.
female; or, for thy more sweet understanding, a
That reigns in galled eyes of weeping souls,
This is true that I say: an I had thee
A woman, master.
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, FERDINAND, GONZALO, and others
swearings and starings, pribbles and prabbles?
Is he not like thee? is he not thine own?
Swear me, Kate, like a lady as thou art,
Food for his rage, repasture for his den.
First let me know, and then I'll answer you.
Give the word through.
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
The very thought of this fair company
The lineal state and glory of the land!
Let's mock the midnight bell.
And fit you to your manhood. May the gods
that hath laid knives under his pillow, and halters
In what place of the field doth Calchas keep?
You know him not, sir.
You wrong me every way; you wrong me, Brutus;
Ah, my good friend, what cheer?
by these presents.'
Off with his head! Now, by Saint Paul I swear,
Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool
By your untimely claspings with your child,
If you will lead these graces to the grave
Nothing but this; 'tis 'bona terra, mala gens.'
possession of the pridge; but he is enforced to
was skilful enough to have lived still, if knowledge
A prince's courage. Away, I prithee.
Exeunt Salarino and Salanio
Opinion's but a fool, that makes us scan
Your fears are worse.
My Lord Bassanio, let him have the ring:
So he dissolved, and showers of oaths did melt.
I'll to the king; and signify to him
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
Where our right valiant father is become.
Ay, sir.
By the northern blasts twice o'er.
So well as soft and tender flattery.
Enter FALSTAFF, Host, BARDOLPH, NYM, PISTOL, and ROBIN
scurrility, witty without affection, audacious without
What's his brother, the other Captain Dumain?
And generally, whoever the king favours,
I know not how I lost him. Here I kneel:
That blood which owed the breadth of all this isle,
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage;
Be it for nothing but to spite my wife--
And nightly, meadow-fairies, look you sing,
I prithee, turn aside and weep for her,
One Angelo, a goldsmith: do you know him?
woo me: at which time would I, being but a moonish
By his persuasion are again fall'n off,
known truth to pass a thousand nothings with, should
And make pretence of wrong that I have done him:
Exit Servant
Exit with Servant
And that the Lord of Westmoreland shall maintain.
I task the earth to the like, forsworn Aumerle;
Of your good pleasure? If it be no more,
What, up and down, carved like an apple-tart?
Is never free of. But, beseech your grace,
His oration to his Army
thee: the money is paid back again.
Hadst thou been his mother, thou couldst have
And Nestor play at push-pin with the boys,
And more inconstant than the wind, who wooes
Makes a pass through the arras
Most disobedient and refractory.
bridge as you shall see in a summer's day. But it
son's pranks too; who, I may say, is no honest man,
Bear'st thou her face in mind? is't long or round?
For there is none of you so mean and base,
Bestow this place on us a little while.
keep not too long in one tune, but a snip and away.
Caesar has taken Toryne.
That every minute of his being thrusts
At whose request the king hath pardon'd them,
That goldsmith there, were he not pack'd with her,
Hath in eternal darkness folded up.
That's very true, my lord.
Then out it goes. What though I know her virtuous
Though from an humble stock, undoubtedly
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
To put a strange face on his own perfection.
Nay, never bear me hence, dispatch me here,
O bloody period!
O, she knew well
All westward, Wales beyond the Severn shore,
Be answer'd in his challenge: Ajax is ready.
Deserved much less advancement.
No less beloved. The Roman emperor's letters,
that is honest; to converse with him that is wise,
And still it might, and yet it may again,
Give me your hand;
Did broach this business to your highness; or
Well followed: Judas was hanged on an elder.
Look,'when his infant fortune came to age,'
That tyrannous heart can think? To one of your receiving
And for mine too: when law can do no right,
Or horse or oxen from the leopard,
Who hath committed them?
More measure of this measure; be not nice.
Did triumph in my face, and they are fled;
I'll broach the tadpole on my rapier's point:
And well such losers may have leave to speak.
Ay, sir, when he goes before me.
During the life of this old majesty,
What are you?
Cowards die many times before their deaths;
Eat, I pray you: will you have some more sauce to
come, come.
That I had been forsworn. Beshrew your eyes,
Thou canst not do a thing in the world so soon,
Are of two houses: lawful mercy
Her doors lock'd?
More than I know the sound of Marcius' tongue
fall in love with my anger. If it be so, as fast as
So stinkingly depending? Go mend, go mend.
Villain, I have done thy mother.
Is it even so? then I defy you, stars!
Than thou the shadow of succession;
They set the same; and there it doth remain,
E'en a crow o' the same nest; not altogether so
In truth, fair Montague, I am too fond,
in plain terms, gone to heaven.
Exeunt ROSALIND, CELIA and CORIN
thou not the air of the court in these enfoldings?
To think my poverty is treacherous.
O Cassius, Brutus gave the word too early;
Who joint'st thou with but with a lordly nation
To yourself: why, she wooes you by a figure.
For 'tis the sport to have the engineer
which now we'll show 'em in deeds. They say poor
Rosalind: so adieu.
Than in their countenance. Will you hear the letter?
Till each man drop by lottery. But if these,
I am all these three.
Exeunt
This tongue had not offended so to-day,
plucked yet, I can assure you.
'Tis a Greek invocation, to call fools into a
To muddy death.
You patch'd up your excuses.
Trumpets, sennet, and cornets. Enter two Vergers,  with short silver wands; next them, two Scribes, in  the habit of doctors; after them, CANTERBURY alone;  after him, LINCOLN, Ely, Rochester, and Saint  Asaph; next them, with some small distance, follows  a Gentleman bearing the purse, with the great seal,  and a cardinal's hat; then two Priests, bearing  each a silver cross; then a Gentleman-usher  bare-headed, accompanied with a Sergeant-at-arms  bearing a silver mace; then two Gentlemen bearing  two great silver pillars; after them, side by side,  CARDINAL WOLSEY and CARDINAL CAMPEIUS; two Noblemen  with the sword and mace. KING HENRY VIII takes  place under the cloth of state; CARDINAL WOLSEY and  CARDINAL CAMPEIUS sit under him as judges. QUEEN  KATHARINE takes place some distance from KING  HENRY VIII. The Bishops place themselves on each  side the court, in manner of a consistory; below  them, the Scribes. The Lords sit next the Bishops.  The rest of the Attendants stand in convenient order about the stage
Remove you hence: I knew you at the first
own people.
Than these two creatures. Which is Sebastian?
of a lime-kiln.
Might be to you in Egypt: yet, if you there
Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?
O, what a world is this, when what is comely
Which should sustain the bound and high curvet
Then is there here one Master Caper, at the suit of
that my desire of having is the sin of covetousness:
And all that we upon this side the sea,
You said the enemy would not come down,
Can he be angry? I have seen the cannon,
Although the victor, we submit to Caesar,
[Aside to CLARENCE]  He plies her hard; and much rain
Will not the mayor then and his brethren come?
Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower
You shall hear from me still; the time shall not
Nor from mine own weak merits will I draw
laughing-stocks to other men's humours; I desire you
With tears augmenting the fresh morning dew.
I had rather have one scratch my head i' the sun
You, cousin
What, man! more water glideth by the mill
Exit Servant, with LUCENTIO and HORTENSIO, BIONDELLO following
ACT III
When I was but your sister; I you brothers,
Worthy many babes and beggars!
And of our labours thou shalt reap the gain.
shall seek all day ere you find them, and when you
SCENE IX. Kenilworth Castle.
I for an Edward weep, so do not they:
is a great argument of falsehood, if I love. And
Set on there! Never was a war did cease,
Misprision in the highest degree! Lady, cucullus non
He throws the bottle at him. Exit
hair and prove a bald jerkin.
They rise
And give her to young Claudio.
Shall we go send them dinners and fresh suits
State-statues only.
And many Jasons come in quest of her.
I shall despair. There is no creature loves me;
Due reference of place and exhibition,
Desiring thee to lay aside the sword
A thousand moral paintings I can show
Marry, this: Edmund Mortimer, Earl of March.
Meet and agreeing with thine infancy;
Plough Rome and harrow Italy: I'll never
No, truly.
It is yours;
Must I receive, whose every word deserves
I am sick still; heart-sick. Pisanio,
The price is to ask it kindly.
Glad am I that your highness is so arm'd
Opens the tomb
If you repay me not on such a day,
Re-enter QUEEN
Looks in the clouds, scorning the base degrees
here's a simple line of life: here's a small trifle
would I could find in my heart that I had not a hard
And you must needs bestow her funeral;
plucked me ope his doublet and offered them his
je m'estime heureux que je suis tombe entre les
And by me, had not our hap been bad.
Exit
Than feed on cates and have him talk to me
Though this be all, do not so quickly go;
For both our honour and our shame in this
Shall be the general's fault, though he perform
They know your grace hath cause and means and might;
on the death of the deer? And, to humour the
Well, sir, I will. Have you the chain about you?
No son of mine succeeding. If 't be so,
Will you be patient? will you stay awhile?
Truly, shepherd, in respect of itself, it is a good
What, have I choked you with an argosy?
Philip, what say'st thou to the cardinal?
Your grace was wont to laugh, is also missing.
lodging and say he lies here or he lies there, were
I'll have her; but I will not keep her long.
And follow me with speed: I'll to the king:
And by the doom of death end woes and all.
Thou baggage, let me in.
Which he not dreams of.
Tell us what Sinon hath bewitch'd our ears,
Drum afar off
Alack, the king!
Troilus, thou coward Troilus, show thy head!
Even so void is your false heart of truth.
If you keep covenant. Had I not brought
Speak, cousin; or, if you cannot, stop his mouth
a very good report o' the worm; but he that will
Ties up my tongue, and will not let me speak.
My praises made thee first a soldier, so,
I am afeard you make a wanton of me.
The cod-piece that will house
Thy pains, Fitzwater, shall not be forgot;
And led my country's strength successfully,
unjust knave; I will no more trust him when he leers
Your name, sir, truly.
Seek to divert the English purposes.
In seeking to augment it, but still keep
Which I have spoke of, whereunto your levy
Cousins, you know what you have to do. O, I cry you
Hark thee, Dardanius.
Here, set it down.
Fool-hardiness; not I.
Tapers they are, with your sweet breaths puff'd out.
What, dost thou scorn me for my gentle counsel?
One of my place in Syria, his lieutenant,
I have a voice and precedent of peace,
fornication, adultery, and all uncleanliness there.
Exit VAUX
knaves, his hinds, were called forth by their
I'll be with you anon.
Like an Olympian wrestling: this have I seen;
Shall be no shelter to these outrages:
Enter CORDELIA, KENT, and Doctor
And much different from the man he was;
Sweet, sweet, sweet nurse, tell me, what says my love?
But with proviso and exception,
children rawly left. I am afeard there are few die
Are level now with men; the odds is gone,
Late footed in the kingdom?
A very pleasing night to honest men.
Mistress Ford: we will thrive, lads, we will thrive.
Fit for her turn, well read in poetry
Hark, hark!
his duchess will be here with him this night.
And why rail I on this Commodity?
My word and promise to the emperor,
therefore I can be quiet.
What, of my suit?
to Palestine for a touch of his nether lip.
thy life: all thy safety were remotion and thy
And for an old aunt whom the Greeks held captive,
The fairest queen that ever king received.
is within a very little of nothing.
to the nurse and bid her still it.
Must cast thee, scarcely coffin'd, in the ooze;
Takes a sword, and runs at him behind
I have no relish of them, but abound
And with declining head into his bosom,
But where is Kate? where is my lovely bride?
Well, for this night we will repose us here:
my hands by helping me to the speech of Beatrice.
Augurs and understood relations have
He dies to-night.
For ever will I walk upon my knees,
The immortal Jove's dead clamours counterfeit,
You know my mind, I'll fight no more 'gainst Troy.
That end upon them should be executed.
that pass. Peter Simple, you say your name is?
I know not what it means; away with her!
To the good queen, possess'd him with a scruple
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
Good words the other day of a bay courser
Have done, for more I hardly can endure.
Grace of the duke, revenges to your heart,
And mine to boot, be darted on thee! Thou,
Again shall you be mother to a king,
through the realm.
Thither, gentle mariner.
Let not our babbling dreams affright our souls:
Welcome, good Messala.
Buckled below fair knighthood's bending knee:
liveth, is to be no counterfeit, but the true and
Good sir, this ring was given me by my wife;
O that we now had here
My father is not dead, for all your saying.
My duty will I boast of; nothing else.
Then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends.
O Warwick, I do bend my knee with thine;
I grow to you, and our parting is a tortured body.
Clifford of Cumberland, 'tis Warwick calls:
I mean, my head upon your lap?
Exit
But when he once attains the upmost round.
speaks holiday, he smells April and May: he will
But that the earthy and cold hand of death
to reason of such goddesses and hath sent this
Upon your will to suffer.
In your waking shall be shown:
O, here's Servilius; now we shall know some answer.
The king is not himself, but basely led
'Tis no matter: ne'er a fantastical knave of them
When you were there?
nor never break for urging. If thou canst love a
But be he as he will, yet once ere night
[Sings]
If not in heaven, you'll surely sup in hell.
The which at Touraine, in Saint Katharine's
Go, Faulconbridge: now hast thou thy desire;
Hang out our banners on the outward walls;
late master's garments in thy possession?
O, if I could, what grief should I forget!
I tell you all her wealth.
For Henry weeps that thou dost live so long.
will. Go, go, Tubal, and meet me at our synagogue;
With nothing trembles: at some thing it grieves,
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
with too much as they that starve with nothing. It
And let him say to England that we send
Re-enter CHARMIAN
Than now the English bottoms have waft o'er
And entertain a cheerful disposition.
If we be English deer, be then in blood;
Either new, or by remissness new-conceived,
I say, without characters, fame lives long.
Plight me the full assurance of your faith;
I have seen thee in her and I do adore thee:
It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
By Jove, I am not covetous for gold,
It shall be seven ere I go to horse:
Egregious ransom.
From these our Henry lineally descends.
A pudency so rosy the sweet view on't
Or stomach-qualm'd at land, a dram of this
The fruits of love I mean, my loving liege.
This must be known; which, being kept close, might
Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life,
Enter APEMANTUS
That fits as well as 'Tell me, good my lord,
Without discharge, money, or furniture,
Why, give it to my wife and fetch your money.
While these visions did appear.
I shall remember more. Bid him--ah, what?--
Ay, but not yet to die.
Yes, to smell pork; to eat of the habitation which
God comfort thy capacity! I say, the allusion holds
Which he intends to Lear and to Cordelia,
Why, then, your visor should be thatched.
rail against all the first-born of Egypt.
To show their open banner. Now to you:
Why then, belike, he likes it not, perdy.
Ay; prithee, sing.
Then to your offices and let me rest.
What shall be done with him? what is your plot?
Yet have we some revenge. Let husbands know
As easily 'gainst our rocks: for joy whereof
Because his painted skin contents the eye?
Upon what cause, wrong you? alas, our places,
And, from some knowledge and assurance, offer
Pray you, undo this button: thank you, sir.
Down thy ill-uttering throat.
Or will you blame and lay the fault on me?
They that least lend it you shall lack you first.
to undo Hero and kill Leonato. Look you for any
must, for my own honour, if he come in: therefore,
To the shore, that o'er his wave-worn basis bow'd,
Would come against you.
Ay, and it doth confirm
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
Forgetting, like a good man your late censure
the lime of good neighbours. If a man do not erect
Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all:
I bid for you as I'd buy.
trust my judgment in any thing.
What is the matter, sir?
Was ever book containing such vile matter
SCENE I. The king of Navarre's park.
Fear not, my lord, but think
Will you hear this letter with attention?
'Jupiter!' quoth she, 'which of these hairs is Paris,
That gave him out incurable,--
So every bondman in his own hand bears
I' the war do grow together: grant that, and tell me,
Plead for our interest and our being here.
How now! what letter are you reading there?
Which shall be either to this gentleman
Who, newly in the seat, that it may know
Who rated him for speaking well of Pompey:
'Tis pity love should be so contrary;
And let them die that age and sullens have;
Our son shall win.
No, I will speak.
To let a fellow that will take rewards
he be not well, that he comes not home.
E'en such as you speak to me.
Master, here's the gold you sent me for. What, have
He calls again; I pray you, answer him.
Exit
Speaking in deeds and deedless in his tongue;
Nay, I hope.
Which way they went.
That hath her husband banish'd;--O, that husband!
One noble man that hath one spark of fire,
May fright the hopeful mother at the view;
But when the blast of war blows in our ears,
It tutors nature: artificial strife
In your lord's scale is nothing but himself,
Prove that I husbanded her bed in Florence,
That's two of his weapons: but, well.
Aaron, a thousand deaths
Than such an one to reign.
carries noise, and behind him he leaves tears:
It may lie gently at the foot of peace,
As dogs upon their masters, worrying you.
We will try it.
The fairest in all Syria,
Or strange, or self-affected!
And put my eyeballs in thy vaulty brows
Why, the hot-blooded France, that dowerless took
ready. By my troth, I am exceeding ill: heigh-ho!
You shall not make me welcome:
Have you no countermand for Claudio yet,
I had an Edward, till a Richard kill'd him;
Rated mine uncle from the council-board;
To the gates of Tartar, thou most excellent devil of wit!
The business asketh silent secrecy.
Perchance till after Theseus' wedding-day.
Enter LAVINIA
For, knowing thee to be but young and light--
honest method, as wholesome as sweet, and by very
any thing which professed to make him rejoice: a
Lay kissing in your arms, lord cardinal.
What, in our house?
What, in my sight? Bianca, get thee in.
To fright the souls of fearful adversaries,
I, by the honour of my marriage-bed,
Of her own clime, complexion, and degree,
Very true, and but a month old.
Their wishes, do discandy, melt their sweets
And worship this dull fool!
Do thou for him stand:
The secrets of his overcharged soul;
Alice, tu as ete en Angleterre, et tu parles bien le langage.
And consciences, that will not die in debt,
Something of me, or what concerns me: pray you,--
To BRABANTIO
Upon the hatches: thence we looked toward England,
Is't possible?
That strew the green lap of the new come spring?
my niece that I cannot pursue with any safety this
And they it were that ravished our sister:
That would be howl'd out in the desert air,
But who dare tell her so? If I should speak,
So dear I loved the man, that I must weep.
The lady that I sent for. Welcome, fair one!
And leave the world no copy.
that obscene and preposterous event, that draweth
For a dark hour or twain.
But shall we make the welkin dance indeed? shall we
You know neither me, yourselves nor any thing. You
It was your pleasure and your own remorse:
ANTIPHOLUS
The gates of Milan, and, i' the dead of darkness,
If thou art taken: hence, be gone, away!
His father's death, and our o'erhasty marriage.
Damsel of France, I think I have you fast:
Haply a woman's voice may do some good,
Not as protector, steward, substitute,
Embrace thy brother there; rejoice with him.
We were not all unkind, nor all deserve
Except immortal Caesar, speaking of Brutus
For this night's watching.
Enter NERISSA, dressed like a lawyer's clerk
of his own judgments, wherein so curiously he had
I owe you much, and, like a wilful youth,
'twill out at the key-hole; stop that, 'twill fly
To ally my rages and revenges with
Have knit again, and fleet, threatening most sea-like.
How much her grace is alter'd on the sudden?
[Aside]  And supper too, although thou know'st it not.
show you, which shall be yours in private. Your
How is't with you, my lord
High commendation, true applause and love,
Peace!
Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot!
Exit BALTHASAR
And pardon'd the deceiver, dwell
find itself abused, begin to heave the gorge,
Enter FALSTAFF and MISTRESS FORD
Well said, old mocker: I must needs be friends
That one meets Hector; if none else, I am he.
Good Enobarbus, 'tis a worthy deed,
That nothing sung but death to us and ours:
Burn, house! sink, Athens! henceforth hated be
epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
come unbutton here.
That, if you fail in our request, the blame
Madam, my instrument's in tune.
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of
And hold-fast is the only dog, my duck:
come in our shadow, to scatter his crowns in the
By being worse than they. I am Posthumus,
You'll leave his lecture when I am in tune?
He has done my office: I know not if't be true;
But we our kingdom's safety must so tender,
If thus thou vanishest, thou tell'st the world
That malice was a great and grievous sin;
Tends that thou wouldst speak to the Duke of Hereford?
Let not my worser spirit tempt me again
SCENE V. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
A dangerous law against gentility!
Reads the inscription on MARINA's monument
Go, bind thou up yon dangling apricocks,
As does a Briton peasant: so I'll fight
forehead, or hang my bugle in an invisible baldrick,
A dram of poison, such soon-speeding gear
They withdraw into the tent
gavest me,'twas a pennyworth, wast't not?
could disunite.
To make a shambles of the parliament-house!
As it might be, perhaps, were I a woman,
Brave son, derived from honourable loins!
The fore-end of my time. But up to the mountains!
glass-gazing, super-serviceable finical rogue;
I should inform thee farther. Lend thy hand,
Whose weakness, married to thy stronger state,
What a pied ninny's this! Thou scurvy patch!
My very character,--I'ld turn it all
Is Cadwal mad?
On both his knees doth kiss King Richard's hand
fit.
But, either it was different in blood,--
Why, shall the people give
Tell her the process of Antonio's end;
Such goodly things as you!
I would not be a stander-by to hear
other places she enlargeth her mirth so far that
And who can sever love from charity?
Toward thee forgetfulness too general, gross:
Spur your proud horses hard, and ride in blood;
My lord, what I have done, as best I may,
The danger to itself?
Which makes me sweat with wrath. Come on, my fellows:
SCENE I. A part of the Grecian camp.
Ay, if I know the letters and the language.
But, see, I am prevented.
Let us kill him, and we'll have corn at our own price.
Re-quicken'd what in flesh was fatigate,
Yea, look'st thou pale? let me see the writing.
commons of Melford.' How now, sir knave!
Vat is you sing? I do not like des toys. Pray you,
Over the boots? nay, give me not the boots.
And then go to my inn and dine with me?
Of Corinth that, of Epidaurus this:
Plead on her part some cause to you unknown:
Of charity, what kin are you to me?
A cold and drowsy humour, for no pulse
Nobody; I myself. Farewell
O, 'tis a worthy lord.
Most holy and religious fear it is
A canopy most fatal, under which
To the tuition of God: From my house, if I had it,--
Was ever Scythia half so barbarous?
Of any prince so wild a libertine.
Then say if they be true. This mis-shapen knave,
ACT II
And there will we be too, ere it be long,
If the redress will follow, thou receivest
To invite the Trojan lords after the combat
ANTIPHOLUS
Exit
Never to part with it; and here he stands;
Now sadder, that you come so unprovided.
Nay, he is dead; and slain by Edward's hand.
Their virtues else--be they as pure as grace,
Ay, but hark you, my friend; 'twas we that made up
Then I degraded you from being king,
Perchance even there where I did find my doubts.
And, touched with choler, hot as gunpowder,
Nay, good lieutenant;
But to my mind, though I am native here
Burn'd on the water: the poop was beaten gold;
To have her back return'd: thus to persist
he's a fool, he's a great quarreller: and but that
Stabs him
Ere we will eat our meal in fear and sleep
Exeunt LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS, and MUTIUS, with ALARBUS
Thou hast lost by this a kingdom.
Now I fear thee not:
The power to cancel his captivity.
Heaviness in me.
Indeed we fear'd his sickness was past cure.
Whereto, when they shall know what men are rich,
Use careful watch, choose trusty sentinels.
But that he speaks.
Mercy is not itself, that oft looks so;
Enter PISANIO, with a letter
Of mighty opposites.
Collected from his life. I'll startle you
Enter MARCUS and LAVINIA
But partly led to diet my revenge,
Look, here comes a pilgrim: I know she will lie at
For few men rightly temper with the stars:
And thou shalt die for't.
Come hither, nurse. What is yond gentleman?
His message ere he come, that a swift blessing
Which now doth that I would not have it do,
To PHEBE
The queen is comfortless, and we forgetful
Enter BRAKENBURY
We met, we woo'd and made exchange of vow,
And yet partake no venom, for his knowledge
Of favour from myself and all our house;
This is a strange thing as e'er I look'd on.
He has a son, who shall be flayed alive; then
Good ancestors.
A poor esquire of Kent, that loves his king.
Lie there what hidden woman's fear there will--
Nor do I thee: though I did wish him dead,
set on some quantity of barren spectators to laugh
The enemy comes on in gallant show;
To buy his favour, I extend this friendship:
And let him feed.
O well-knit Samson! strong-jointed Samson! I do
Degrees in schools and brotherhoods in cities,
Wholly, sir.
But my unspotted fire of love to you.
Who's there? what's the matter? will you beat
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
[Aside]  I do not like her. She doth think she has
At the queen's be't: 'good' should be pertinent
Without the beauty of a woman's face?
[Aside]  The devil speaks in him.
Ah, would the scandal vanish with my life,
And being once subdued in armed tail,
Lorenzo, and thy love.
If the scorn of your bright eyne
Breathless and faint, leaning upon my sword,
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
Which, if convenience will not allow,
On your command.
Entreated me to call and know her mind:
By those that know the very nerves of state,
Here comes the Lady Paulina's steward: he can
Than pity note how much. Therefore, be gone.
Arise, and say how thou camest here.
Love's stories written in love's richest book.
For I intend to have it ere long.
Hast cleansed my bosom, I from thee departed
Why, well;
And I will kiss thy detestable bones
And my more-having would be as a sauce
He has almost supp'd: why have you left the chamber?
So like to him that got it, if thou hast
No more of that. I pray you, in your letters,
To him our absolute power:
And, that once gotten, doubt not of large pay.
Ay, but he'll have but a year in all these ducats:
swallowed than a flap-dragon.
Where none will sweat but for promotion,
As the free elements. And then for her
stray, for entering his fee-simple without leave.
Who loved her so, that, speaking of her foulness,
SCENE II. The house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
Unto my end of stealing them. But, gracious sir,
Hark! the trumpets.
Let me not hear you speak of Mortimer:
Here is my hand: you shall from this time be
Madam, my thanks and prayers.
A salve for any sore that may betide.
So play the foolish throngs with one that swoons;
'Tis true indeed; the collusion holds in the exchange.
Consent, and for thy honour give consent,
might have a good woman born but one every blazing
For disobedience to your father's will,
That Katharina and Petruchio should be married,
Himself! no, he's not himself: would a' were
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays:
You spend your passion on a misprised mood:
O, by your leave, I pray you,
Words before blows: is it so, countrymen?
Bring me just notice of the numbers dead
One pain is lessen'd by another's anguish;
appertaining to thy young days, which we may
With colours fairer painted their foul ends.
His highness yet doth speak, and holds belief
I am not valiant neither,
Exeunt
I am too mean a subject for thy wrath:
Thou sayest true, i' faith, so they must; for your
He said it would be thus, poor banish'd man!
Fortune, good night: smile once more: turn thy wheel!
If hell and treason hold their promises,
So I heard you say.
Unquiet meals make ill digestions;
SCENE I. Another part of the island.
And I'll still stay, to have thee still forget,
Approved warriors, and my faithful friends,
Ourselves, our wives, and children, on our knees,
Where'er I wander, boast of this I can,
Cut short all intermission; front to front
Ay, night by night, in studying good for England,
Ah, so much interest have I in thy sorrow
No, I'll die here.
How sweet the moonlight sleeps upon this bank!
Hadst thou beheld--
Revolt our subjects? that we cannot mend;
Beauteous as ink; a good conclusion.
In his own grace he doth exalt himself,
I send thee, Warwick, such a messenger
You will be there, I know.
Without offence to utter them. Thus, pretty lady,
SCENE IV. Ephesus. A room in CERIMON's house.
For this was of much length,--the vile conclusion
You saw the mistress, I beheld the maid;
One fairer than my love! the all-seeing sun
How have I been behaved, that he might stick
This is old: what is the success?
To any shape of thy preferment such
Ay, boy, ready.
How fares my lord? speak, Beaufort, to
In her consists my happiness and thine;
O heavens bless my girl! But, hark, what music?
Marry, will I; and you shall help to put him i' the ground.
Home to my house. O most unhappy day!
The vapour of our valour will o'erturn them.
Son, I say, follow the king.
That bloody mind, I think, they learn'd of me,
How now, Shylock! what news among the merchants?
To be the realm of France, and Pharamond
Did I the tired Caesar. And this man
Comes from my pate as birdlime does from frize;
And when in music we have spent an hour,
all myself,--
Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm;
Upon thy promising fortune.
trick. If you will hang me for it, you may; but I
Re-enter KING RICHARD, RATCLIFF, Attendants and Forces
Into the flame.
he that hath learned no wit by nature nor art may
But yet I'll make assurance double sure,
I would she were in heaven, so she could
It is not you I call for:
made me mad. I say, we will have no more marriages:
With wit enough for thee.
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree;
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
Enter a Servant
To bear the extremity of dire mishap!
And now I have the boy, I will undo
Next, Cleopatra does confess thy greatness;
Thou wast that did preserve me. Thou didst smile.
Well. I will do it, though I take thee in the
shall never laugh but in that maid's company! But
a fool you were upon the ground.
PERICLES discovered
Should be as moral as an old man's life?
That hath aspired to Solon's happiness
[To KING RICHARD III]
Sirrah young gamester, your father were a fool
Can equally move with them. Provide your going;
bowels, thou!
The king and queen and all are coming down.
Lines of fair comfort and encouragement.
And die in terror of thy guiltiness!
King Edward, valiant Richard, Montague,
One of them showed me a ring that he had of your
That's my brave lord!
Master, I am here entered in bond for you.
The curse of heaven and men succeed their evils!
Here sits a king more woful than you are.
Let's write good angel on the devil's horn:
As I intended, for it wrought on her
Friends am I with you all and love you all,
Widow, go you along. Lords, use her honourably.
With sweet enlargement doth dismiss me hence:
Blush not in actions blacker than the night,
Well, sir, I hope, when I do it, I shall do it on a
Fails in the promised largeness: cheques and disasters
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Nay, whip me then: he'll rather
Do so, my friends. See them well entertain'd.
How now! who is it?
Alarum continues still afar off
fain be about the ears of the English.
The fairest grant is the necessity.
Yes, my lord.
Together with the seal o' the senate, what
Thanks for that:
You chose her; then I'ld shriek, that even your ears
Mock mothers from their sons, mock castles down;
Varro's Servant	Is't not your business too?
pancakes were naught and the mustard was good, and
And look how well my garments sit upon me;
Have laid most heavy hand.
And you, Prince Dauphin, with all swift dispatch,
To grace in captive bonds his chariot-wheels?
with a distempered appetite. To be generous,
Is he won yet?
No, sir, 'tis in grain; Noah's flood could not do it.
What is it?--Coriolanus must I call thee?--
so long am I at the least. But wilt thou make a
Come, Antony, away!
You have shot over.
business of the master the author of the servant's
And from my false hand cut the wedding-ring
Being no further enemy to you
church-door; but 'tis enough,'twill serve: ask for
Peace, peace! you durst not so have tempted him.
Beyond imagination is the wrong
I am thankful to you; and I'll go along
Caesar's better parts
As I do trust I am not--then, dear uncle,
You always end with a jade's trick: I know you of old.
I'll have our Michael Cassio on the hip,
And he shall feel mine edge.
Thou hast no hands, to wipe away thy tears:
Grievous complaints of you; which, being consider'd,
Tell me how Wales was made so happy as
But fear the main intendment of the Scot,
Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me,
I tender my commission; by whose virtue,
Sir Eglamour, I would to Valentine,
Exeunt
And, for myself, most part of all this night,
could be set up against mortality.
To be the dowry of a second head,
Not Afric owns a serpent I abhor
If fires be hot, knives sharp, or waters deep,
Will rain hot vengeance on offenders' heads.
From the corruption of abusing times,
Incensed the lords o' the council, that he is,
And all to make away my guiltless life.
No, my lord;
Or if that thou couldst see me without eyes,
The chimney
That I am pretty.
My vows are equal partners with thy vows.
And desperately are dead.
it was excess of wine that set him on;
Potent at court: he, none but he, shall have her,
What he hath utter'd I have writ my sister
fifteen i' the litter: and you may know by my size
And drave great Mars to faction.
When I was sick, you gave me bitter pills,
Here's my son, sir, a poor boy,--
O, sweet my mother, cast me not away!
Music. Enter the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
Exit
To keep thee from the tempest of the field.
Shallow; and here young Master Slender, that
Not making any scruple of her soilure,
O,--As true as truest horse, that yet would
The devil himself.
it.
Enter PANDARUS
I think the Duke of Burgundy will fast
In the spring time, the only pretty ring time,
When I shall meet him in the court of heaven
Lysander, look how I do quake with fear:
Exeunt
Than pity to our prayers. Down: an end;
You, sirrah, provide your block and your axe
Whom for the theft I wedded, stole these children
Where learned you this, fool?
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
And prove it too, against mine honour aught,
See you well guerdon'd for these good deserts.
I make all use of it, for I use it only.
In deepest consequence.
Do light upon her, she shall bring him that
Exit
The contract you pretend with that base wretch,
Then comes the time, who lives to see't,
With vilest torture let my life be ended.
rising of the lark to the lodging of the lamb, vary
and in him that escapes, it were not sin to think
And made what work I pleased: 'tis not my blood
Where hast thou been preserved? where lived? how found
SCENE I. A hall in DUKE SOLINUS'S palace.
desirous to lie with his mother earth?
That wound, beyond their feeling, to the quick.
A title for a maid of all titles the worst.
Perhaps they will but please themselves upon her,
great oneyers, such as can hold in, such as will
If he would spend his power. God save you, sir.
My stooping duty tenderly shall show.
And tapers burn so bright and every thing
The close enacts and counsels of the heart!
Nor to their penn'd speech render we no grace,
beast, abide?
Forgive the comment that my passion made
Relent, sweet Hermia: and, Lysander, yield
His grace
you and shine through you like the water in an
That before you, and next unto high heaven,
Who hath been still a giddy neighbour to us;
good discretion.
Beheaded publicly for his offence.
That else leans on the affair: pray you, make haste.
presently to Saint Luke's: there, at the moated
I will not be denied: sweet heart, look back.
Nor posted off their suits with slow delays;
But with much forcing of his disposition.
Prince, pardon me, or strike me, if you please;
Indeed, I should have ask'd you that before.
Witness the world, that I create thee here
I am invited, sir, to certain merchants,
Had rather have us win than him they follow:
therefore blessed? No: as a walled town is more
Which he treads on at noon: but I do wonder
I fear, too early: for my mind misgives
Farewell, good Salisbury; and good luck go with thee!
Enter an armed Soldier
Unless your thoughts went on my way.
Enter a Townsman of Saint Alban's, crying 'A miracle!'
[Within]  My lord , my lord! what, ho! my lord, my lord!
The best and truest;
so much as this fact comes to?
That's cover'd o'er with Turkish tapestry,
Would serve to scale another Hero's tower,
My legions and my horse: six kings already
Patience, I say; your mind perhaps may change.
For nothing had begot my something grief;
but that I am afeard.
Must sanctify his reliques. Who comes here?
Should without issue die, he'll carry it so
Regard thy danger, and along with me!
It is for you we speak, not for ourselves:
In such a just and charitable war.
Make me a willow cabin at your gate,
What then, sir?
Not my desert.
soul-curer and body-curer!
And is not careful what they mean thereby,
Enter BIRON, with a paper
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
For some displeasing service I have done,
Of excellent dumb discourse.
Swart, like my shoe, but her face nothing half so
Giving full trophy, signal and ostent
Now, music, sound, and sing your solemn hymn.
This and these pearls to me sent Longaville:
As if there were some monster in his thought
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse, from the bay
Which is he?
Where is she, sir? How
These cull'd and choice-drawn cavaliers to France?
That numberless upon me stuck as leaves
I am glad I am so acquit of this tinderbox: his
Almost to acknowledge hers.
The endeavor of this present breath may buy
Therefore, good uncle, for my father's sake,
I would be loath to have you overflown with a
I, that please some, try all, both joy and terror
Unbated and envenom'd: the foul practise
I'll slit the villain's nose, that would have sent
No more talking on't; let it be done: away, away!
You two are book-men: can you tell me by your wit
Yet is this no charm for the toothache. Old
To prostitute our past-cure malady
Take from my mouth the wish of happy years:
Right well, dear madam. By your patience,
there's a double tongue; there's two tongues.' Thus
I prithee, give no limits to my tongue:
he is but a knight, is a'?
ACT IV
To keep his anger still in motion.
As good as promise.
He were as much more villain: you, my lord,
To whose hands have you sent the lunatic king? Speak.
scarce hold him yonder.
are amazed; but this shall absolutely resolve you.
Most dear'st! my collop! Can thy dam?--may't be?--
Great Herod to incline himself to Caesar,
Assuredly you know me.
By our remembrances of days foregone,
That if they come to sojourn at my house,
An if she were a thornier piece of ground than she
At Grecian sword, contemning. Tell Valeria,
Good my friends,
And thy sea-marge, sterile and rocky-hard,
Or else it must go wrong with you and me:
That the world masters. Now, in faith, Gratiano,
O'ertake me, if thou canst; I scorn thy strength.
time, but also how thou art accompanied: for though
Call me before the exactest auditors
Enter HECTOR, armed; AENEAS, TROILUS, and other Trojans, with Attendants
Boys, bid him welcome.
Call here my varlet; I'll unarm again:
Look out there, some of ye.
It is too late; I cannot send them now:
Apt, liable to be employ'd in danger,
When but love's shadows are so rich in joy!
The milk thou suck'dst from her did turn to marble;
Exeunt
Can it not do and undo? I will make
Did prophesy that Richmond should be king,
I will, sir.
By my faith, sir, but it is; never any body saw it
Ford's a knave, and I will aggravate his style;
Enter BASSANIO, ANTONIO, GRATIANO, and their followers
[Reads]  'An if we miss to meet him handsomely--
As 'twere to banish their affects with him.
The slaughter of the prince that owed that crown,
So be it, for it cannot be but so.
And to her father turn our thoughts again,
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes;
Which his triumphant father's hand had won;
The worthiest of them tell me name by name;
Exit
Which, from the tongue of roaring Typhon dropp'd
Demetrius, thou dost over-ween in all;
Nay, Got's lords and his ladies! you must speak
For my wounds' sake, to give their suffrage: please you
'Go to thou art made, if thou desirest to be so;'--
Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to 't.
Cousin of Hereford, as thy cause is right,
I will never take you for my love again; but I will
Where in that nest of spicery they shall breed
For thou, poor man, hast drown'd it with thine own.
Obey our will, which travails in thy good:
To York-place, where the feast is held.
My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
authority shall not see thee, or else look friendly
Doth cherish you and yours, God punish me
Splitted the heart. This is his sword;
Where lies thy grief, O, tell me, good Dumain?
compliment, and men are only turned into tongue, and
Unworthy brother, and unworthy sons!
them no longer than yesterday: a very honest woman,
before, which hung so tottering in the balance that
Now, pray, my lord, let's see the devil's writ.
And Trinculo is reeling ripe: where should they
As princes do their courts, when they are cloy'd
And couple Clowder with the deep--mouth'd brach.
Is almost come.
The business present: 'tis his highness' pleasure
And patches will I get unto these cudgell'd scars,
My father's death--
Good fool, for my brother's death.
Peace! for I will not have to do with you.
pridge, I think in my very conscience he is as
Since I am put to know that your own science
One writ with me in sour misfortune's book!
Fie, lords! that you, being supreme magistrates,
As I bethink me, you should not be king
Thy late exploits done in the heart of France,
Say he dines forth, and let no creature enter.
For these my friends in spite of thee shall wear.
The source of this our watch and the chief head
That lift your vassal hands against my head
And though the edge hath something hit ourselves,
I shall not know him: therefore never, never
What we shall say we have and what we owe.
That these hot tears, which break from me perforce,
O Tullus,--
Answer I must and shall do with my life.
Nothing so full of heart. But peace, AEneas,
There is a tide in the affairs of men,
Enter PROTEUS
Which we durst never yet, and with strain'd pride
Or else it stood upon the choice of friends,--
Strike, fellows, strike; this is the man I seek.
I take it, is a gentlemanlike offer.
himself; if he mend, he is no longer dishonest; if
Whip me such honest knaves. Others there are
majesty bade me signify to you that he has laid a
And, in his mantle muffling up his face,
the map of my microcosm, follows it that I am known
am now in great haste, as it may appear unto you.
To nature none more bound; his training such,
Let me speak like yourself, and lay a sentence,
And since this business so fair is done,
Thy son I kill'd for his presumption.
She's far enough; and what he learns by this
his majesty, out of a self-gracious remembrance, did
I know not, an't like you.
Bohemia stops his ears, and threatens them
lay my countenance to pawn; I have grated upon my
That takes away by any secret course
Being counted falsehood, shall, as I express it,
O sleep, thou ape of death, lie dull upon her!
Upon their spotted souls for this offence!
And the persuasion of his augurers,
Be brooch'd with me; if knife, drugs,
To offices of tender courtesy.
ACT IV
to-day, that your niece Beatrice was in love with
of so much money, be now a gainer? Good body, I
His discontents are unremoveably
Glendower speaks to her in Welsh, and she answers him in the same
Adsum.
To attend the emperor's person carefully:
To prove, by God's grace and my body's valour,
Of my long weary life is come upon me. Farewell:
'Well, well!' why, have you any discretion? have
The unyoked humour of your idleness:
Nor I.
Prepare the body then, and follow us.
I know not what I shall think of that: but I am
Well mayst thou know her by thy own proportion,
Than when I feel and see her no farther trust her;
Those waters from me which I would have stopp'd;
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax,
Drawing his sword
For the deposing of a rightful king.
Makes me look dismal will I clip to form;
Exeunt
So likely to report themselves: the cutter
If we do lose this battle, then is this
Though the great bulk Achilles be thy guard,
De elbow, madame.
That calf-like they my lowing follow'd through
Unto his several mistress, which they'll know
As shall be proved upon you?
If it proves so, then loving goes by haps:
What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly,
An unknown opposite; thou art not vanquish'd,
I combat challenge of this latten bilbo.
When we have march'd our rackets to these balls,
Down with him, down with him!
Sir, my life is yours;
I hold my most malicious foe, and think not
Orsino's mistress and his fancy's queen.
With fear and horrid flight.
He's that he is: I may not breathe my censure
do the part of an honest man in it.
Exeunt
Fetch hither all my boxes in my closet.
But theirs is sweetened with the hope to have
I make a broken delivery of the business; but the
What a blow was there given!
I think thou hast the veriest shrew of all.
O, did he so? I charge you, go with me.
And go indeed, having so good a mean.
Signior, no.
leopard: wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to
KENT is set at liberty
ask thee what's their offence; sixth and lastly, why
For God's sake, a pot of small ale.
if this be not a lawful case for me to leave his
What said the wench when he rose again?
Calls her a nonpareil: I never saw a woman,
being great-bellied, and longing, as I said, for
To-morrow in the battle think on me,
Should have an army for an usher, and
Shall I? content: this chair shall be my state,
The gay new coats o'er the French soldiers' heads
When he would force it? Sure, it is no sin,
All that which Henry Fifth had gotten?
Heaven is above all yet; there sits a judge
Therefore I urge thy oath; for that I know
And you shall find yourself to be well thank'd,
At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,'
from a spider, without drawing their massy irons and
And have no portion in the choice myself.
SCENE II. Rome. An ante-chamber in OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
Where is that viper? bring the villain forth.
So sweet is zealous contemplation.
But I of these will wrest an alphabet
For which, the most high gods not minding longer
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow!
Under this conjuration, speak, my lord;
Betwixt ourselves and all our followers:
For the demand of our neglected tribute
One heart, one bed, two bosoms and one troth.
So good a lady that no tongue could ever
commendations to you too: and let me tell you in
Let me choose
And then down falls again.
With what?
Ere I will my virgin patent up
DON
porridge than in your cheek; and your virginity,
by a divine thrusting on: an admirable evasion
Unto whose grace our passion is as subject
tailor's-yard, you sheath, you bowcase; you vile
For mine's beyond beyond--say, and speak thick;
That, in the working of your own affections,
So high above his limits swells the rage
Ha' not you seen, Camillo,--
From Ravenspurgh haven before the gates of York,
Yield him, who all thy human sons doth hate,
I know it well. What must I call her?
Well, I will meet you, so I may have good cheer.
How now, you dog!
Even the billows of the sea,
Builds in the weather on the outward wall,
Sits in the wind against me.
The people's enemy is gone, is gone!
Thou must be married to no man but me;
Comest thou again for ransom?
Come, let's do so:
If, one by one, you wedded all the world,
And furious close of civil butchery
O, if I thought that I'ld beat him like a dog!
Enter Scout
First Murderer appears at the door
their game, and we will to our recreation.
When could they say till now, that talk'd of Rome,
O'er sixteen years and leave the growth untried
Mighty and to be fear'd, than my condition;
That now I aim at.
Sings
How now, thou core of envy!
Enter Chorus
Whose love is never link'd to the deserver
What power is it which mounts my love so high,
As I intend more good to you and yours,
grace! Some say he shall be stoned; but that death
O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Lordings, farewell; and say, when I am gone,
Clapp'd wings to me.
Enter the Senators from TIMON
As she lived peerless,
Is very cunning in.
Being but fourth of that heroic line.
Will you lie down and rest upon the cushions?
Nay, I would have you go before me thither.
SCENE IV. A room in LEONATO'S house.
I give thee this to dry thy cheeks withal.
He to be earl marshal: you may read the rest.
Where be these enemies? Capulet! Montague!
ACT III
In doing courtesies, and one in whom
Is't true? can't be?
[Reads]  Till I have no wife I have nothing in France.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
We shall, my lord.
Proclaim'd at market-crosses, read in churches,
Have holp to make this rescue?
Art thou one of the Worthies?
Which do not be entreated to, but weigh
A knave teach me my duty!
Affection! thy intention stabs the centre:
An he should, it were an alms to hang him. She's an
The which immediacy may well stand up,
This sudden sending him away must seem
Co-rivall'd greatness? Either to harbour fled,
country Greece gets more with begging than we can do
Or the light loss of England for a friend:
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
filled up with guts and midriff. Charge an honest
Scholars allow'd freely to argue for her.
Consort with me in loud and dear petition,
Like urchins, ouphes and fairies, green and white,
First told me thou wast mad; then camest in smiling,
My sovereign, with the loving citizens,
Upon his face an ocean of salt tears,
Weary of all, shall want some.
Why with some little train, my Lord of Buckingham?
Which you do live upon; and fit it is,
Richard of Bordeaux, by me hither brought.
Bring forth that sorceress condemn'd to burn.
Much good dich thy good heart, Apemantus!
My hair doth stand on end to hear her curses.
What simple thief brags of his own attaint?
devil his true liegeman upon the cross of a Welsh
And must advise the emperor for his good.
'Tis not so, I hope.
Where one but goes abreast: keep then the path;
Thou blushest, Antony; and that blood of thine
And gain a husband by his liberty.
And presently go with me to my chamber,
festival purses; and had not the old man come in
Exit FABIAN
a votary; I have vowed to Jaquenetta to hold the
To make it gracious. For my private part,
Now, sir, come on: what was done to Elbow's wife, once more?
You should have been respective and have kept it.
On twenty bloody blocks, he'ld yield them up,
I were best not to call; I dare not call:
Another bear the ewer, the third a diaper,
What! I am dubb'd! I have it on my shoulder.
Exit Servants
Sound to this coward and lascivious town
And 'twixt the green sea and the azured vault
Great king,
SCENE II. The DUKE OF YORK's palace.
Since that my penitence comes after all,
'Tis not a time
Exeunt
Ill-spirited Worcester! did not we send grace,
Beauteous and swift, the minions of their race,
Let us haste to hear it,
Bid them repair to the market place; where I,
I'll show't the king and undertake to be
A space for further travel.
But now, I do respect thee as my soul.
an thou wilt not, why, then, be enemies with me too.
Thy life answer!
That ever wretched age hath look'd upon.
Where is the life that late I led--
You see me here, you gods, a poor old man,
ACT II
Better do so than tarry and be hang'd.
Yea, his dread trident shake.
to herself her own words to her own ears; she
Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood,
With plumed helm thy slayer begins threats;
He is married?
A strumpet's boldness, a divulged shame
When I do tell thee, there my hopes lie drown'd,
Exit
Air, would I might triumph so!
Nay! prithee, woman,--
be his dole! He that runs fastest gets the ring.
So when he opens his purse to give us our reward,
I will something affect the letter, for it argues facility.
I say, I will make him eat some part of my leek, or
Your servant Kent: Where is your servant Caius?
I will, my liege.
And apprehend thee for a felon here.
Than what he stood for, so his gracious nature
Which, God he knows, I saw not: for the which
No, not so, villain; thou beliest thyself:
My guilt be on my head, and there an end.
And so by many winding nooks he strays
I tell thee, I, that thou hast marr'd her gown.
I evermore did love you, Hermia,
Then marvel not, thou great and complete man,
Be not deceived: if I have veil'd my look,
But, if you were the devil, you are fair.
If by which time our secret be undone,
No, let me not.
that will use the devil himself with courtesy:
Grandam, one night, as we did sit at supper,
I will not stay thy questions; let me go:
Upon mine honour, sir, I heard a humming,
With hey, ho,  and c.
I have a strange infirmity, which is nothing
Go about it.
Is only my obedience. What can happen
She's gone. I am abused; and my relief
Thou dost o'er-count me of my father's house:
He hath abused your powers.
Saw you Aufidius?
Where being apprehended, his false cunning,
Aside
the bolting.
For all my blood in Rome's great quarrel shed;
If I do fail in fortune of my choice,
Ay, it is no matter.
There is our captain: we'll follow him that's fled;
Do even drag me homeward: which to hinder
Virginity, like an old courtier, wears her cap out
What says the silver with her virgin hue?
Or not remember what I must be now!
My princely father then had wars in France
I say, this Ajax--
I am most unhappy in the loss of it.
Than what befalls myself. You stand amazed;
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear: for, lo! his sword,
Must I behold my pretty Arthur more.
Let vultures gripe thy guts! for gourd and fullam holds,
self-love, which is the most inhibited sin in the
In storms of fortune; for in her ray and brightness
That grows not in a fair consent with ours,
Sir, I must have that diamond from you.
For new-made honour doth forget men's names;
This is Illyria, lady.
For this, consorted with the citizens,
And ever shall
That were the cause of my imprisonment.
Of these exactions, yet the king our master--
store the world they played for.
may do homage: find me to marry me with Octavius
And his ill-boding tongue no more shall speak.
Of private conference.
master Shylock and you, sir: you have the grace of
Unto his lordship, whose unwished yoke
Fie, fie, fie, fie!
In doing daily wrongs. I could say more,
I am vanquished; these haughty words of hers
That long time have been barren.
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
any, freely give unto you this young scholar,
Well, sit you out: go home, Biron: adieu.
thou shalt find I will most kindly requite. I had
To hide us from pursuit that will be made
As here by Caesar, and by you cut off,
SCENE I. London. An ante-chamber in the palace.
The tyrannous and bloody deed is done.
EDGAR interposes
Where you are liberal of your loves and counsels
tyrant: I could play Ercles rarely, or a part to
Sir Richard Ketly, Davy Gam, esquire:
I will example it:
Well, forward, forward! thus the bowl should run,
With pomp, with triumph and with revelling.
Alas, sir, we did it for pure need.
For sleeping England long time have I watch'd;
If these be true spies which I wear in my head,
Sweet invocation of a child; most pretty and
When I am buried. Since Frenchmen are so braid,
What is amiss plague and infection mend!
Why, thou unreverend and unhallow'd friar,
Why, friends, you go to do you know not what:
Were you a woman, youth,
That names me traitor, villain-like he lies:
wisely, wisely.
than I will a serpent when he hisses: he will spend
Yet neither pleasure's art can joy my spirits,
Still better, and worse.
At heaviest answer.
the courtesy of it is so fearful. Speak your office.
How now, my son!
This same is she, and I do give you her.
Who steals my purse steals trash; 'tis something, nothing;
[Coming forward]  Let me see't, let me see't, O, let
Lucius!
PINDARUS ascends the hill
Faith, but you do, in my mind.
Where is he now?
Till then, adieu; and keep this holy kiss.
Might I but know thee by thy household badge.
With all the choicest music of the kingdom,
Poor fool and knave, I have one part in my heart
Of Phoebus' wheel, and might so safely, had it
Of excellent dissembling; and let it look
purpose you undertake is dangerous; the friends you
Is there more toil? Since thou dost give me pains,
Come, come away, man; I was sent to call thee.
To this effect, sir; after what flourish your nature will.
I must, where is no remedy.
Into my husband's hands. This trusty servant
wine loved I deeply, dice dearly: and in woman
performance of your promises.
So many horrid ghosts. O now, who will behold
I beseech you, sir, pardon me: it is a letter
Many an English ditty lovely well
What, art thou lame?
And thou, too careless patient as thou art,
Complotted and contrived in this land
To pay him tribute, submit thyself,
That roars so loud, and thunders in the index?
They'll give him death by inches.
When priests are more in word than matter;
You know the fiery quality of the duke;
Since pride must have a fall, and break the neck
Know thine own meaning, but wouldst gabble like
that can be can come between me and the full
He is in heaven, where thou shalt never come.
But now mischance hath trod my title down,
I know not how to tell thee who I am:
Alas, poor women! make us but believe,
Bequeathing it as a rich legacy
northerly.
Your honour and your goodness is so evident
this condition, to be whipped at the high cross
I am but as a guiltless messenger.
Pinch him for his villany;
altered! 'No man must know:' if this should be
Such another proof will make me cry 'baa.'
To love-sick Dido's sad attending ear
Last night the very gods show'd me a vision--
That will be given to the loudest noise we make.
I still win of you: for my sake wear this;
Now do I see 'tis true. Look here, Iago;
Do their due functions. Have you ta'en of it?
I' the boldness of your speech.
I willingly obey your command.
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
Back'd by the power of Warwick, that false peer,
And all those sayings will I overswear;
Exit
the grease of a mutton as wholesome as the sweat of
The good I stand on is my truth and honesty:
But we will visit you at supper-time.
Servant, you are sad.
It was a worthy building. How! a page!
Do we so.
him in gold: I heard him tell it to one of his
distraction, they conveyed me into a buck-basket.
Think you 'twere prejudicial to his crown?
To speak with you; may it please you to come down.
people, who best know him, that I am altogether
He apprehends a world of figures here,
her their boots.
And the conjunction of our inward souls
Three kings I had newly feasted, and did want
Stabs BASSIANUS
My father and my uncle and myself
Mark'd you his lip and eyes?
To one his lands withheld, and to the other
When after that the holy rites are ended,
O master, that you could!
Were piety in thine, it is in these.
Upon the daring huntsman that has gall'd him;
No stricter render of me than my all.
Is it not strange, Canidius,
For that which is not in me?
Whose flood begins to flow within mine eyes,
My residence in Rome at one Philario's,
Thou offspring of the house of Lancaster
Is good without a name. Vileness is so:
for being old before thy time.
judgments in whosoever, and a proper man of person.
Than history can pattern, though devised
Here's a strange alteration!
And e'en as if your lord should wear rich jewels,
Unto the white-upturned wondering eyes
Join with the Goths; and with revengeful war
Now, by Saint Paul, this news is bad indeed.
I am not worth this coil that's made for me.
Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?
And as for these whose ransom we have set,
So is mine. Do you hear, monster? If I should take
aqua-vitae bottle, or a thief to walk my ambling
I trouble thee too much, but thou art willing.
Than their offence can weigh down by the dram;
I like it better than a dangerous honour.
Harp on that still--but by our putting on;
Exit, to the cave
O beauty! where is thy faith?
Stand in the plague of custom, and permit
With wealth enough and young and beauteous,
To undergo such ample grace and honour,
That Phaethon should cheque thy fiery steeds,
and then, you know,
Proceed:
Ah! thus King Henry throws away his crutch
And hangs on Dian's temple: dear Valeria!
Exeunt
What dost thou think 'tis worth?
No sudden mean of death, though ne'er so mean,
Cry shame upon her? Could she here deny
O, 'twill be admirable!
I am sorry you must hear: upon mine honour,
For which live long to thank both heaven and me!
[Sings drunkenly]
Which shallow laughing hearers give to fools:
What?
And pen her up.
He calls for wine: 'A health!' quoth he, as if
pate full of fine dirt? will his vouchers vouch him
Master lieutenant, now that God and friends
no staying. In despite of the devils and hell, have
quickly: she'll make you amends, I warrant you.
Strikes him
I did but tell her she mistook her frets,
the yarn she spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill
This ring I gave him when he parted from me,
all bubukles, and whelks, and knobs, and flames o'
Earth gapes, hell burns, fiends roar, saints pray.
I prithee, spare.
Exeunt
The brother of the Duke of Burgundy,
And yet I would I had o'erlooked the letter:
The good gods me presently,
Upon the which, that every one may read,
Some offer me commodities to buy:
Did worthily perform; and I must use you
Should fall as Jacob's hire, the ewes, being rank,
SCENE I. Alexandria. A room in CLEOPATRA's palace.
To noble fortunes: know thou this, that men
Sea-sick, I think, coming from Muscovy.
But those as sleep and think not on their sins,
Badly, I fear. How fares your majesty?
He hath a kind of honour sets him off,
Is at this day in Germany call'd Meisen.
die when thou wilt, if manhood, good manhood, be
One fit to bandy with thy lawless sons,
Here's no place for you: pray, go to the door.
and make but an interior survey of your good selves!
Hector? where's Hector? I will none but Hector.
He wrung Bassanio's hand; and so they parted.
Exit
Knowing my mind, you wrong me, Master Fenton.
The ghost of Caesar hath appear'd to me
Hasting to the court.
Her husband banish'd; she imprison'd: all
In this dull world, which in thy absence is
Say to her, we have measured many miles
No noise, my lord; but needful conference
By magot-pies and choughs and rooks brought forth
Thanks, good sir:
I long to know the truth hereof at large.
Take their examination yourself and bring it me: I
He's a-birding, sweet Sir John.
Pompey the Great,--
that my report: you, indeed, spoke so of him; and
come; I'll take my leave of the Jew in the twinkling of an eye.
Saving in dialogue of compliment,
No, nor a man that fears you less than he,
You know the cause, air, of my standing here.
Ay, are you thereabouts?
My bluest veins to kiss; a hand that kings
Why, how should she be murder'd?
What say you? can you love the gentleman?
turn you out of doors, never trust me.
And birth, that thou shouldst stand while Lewis doth sit.
As fast as mill-wheels strike. Then was this island--
Cannot be cured by words; therefore be still.
To land his legions all as soon as I;
Her brother's noontide with Antipodes.
My Lord of Warwick, hear me but one word:
With fatal mouths gaping on girded Harfleur.
No, I will be the pattern of all patience;
Bring him his confessor, let him be prepared;
Be so dishonour'd in the court of Rome.
And not believes himself: down with the nose,
cousin to a good husband.
God save you, sir!
Ay, my good lord:--my lord, I should say rather;
To quicken your increase, I will beget
as your French crown for your taffeta punk, as Tib's
Let all my land be sold.
O vain petitioner! beg a greater matter;
Well, that fault may be mended with a breakfast. Read on.
When?
In reason he should never come to heaven
That we have given him cause.
If thou, that bid'st me be content, wert grim,
Or shall I think in silver she's immured,
Nothing of that shall from mine eyes appear.
burning in hell-fire?
For now our observation is perform'd;
And let me say, that never wept before,
I have cast off for ever: thou shalt,
And now in England to our heart's great sorrow,
Because I cannot flatter and speak fair,
If it please you to dine with us.
For private quarrel 'twixt your duke and him,
You use your manners discreetly in all kind of companies:
Less in your knowledge and your grace you show not
[Reads]  'Dian, the count's a fool, and full of gold,'--
But being watch'd that it may still go right!
You have me, rich; and I will never fail
ways, wench; serve God. What, have you dined at home?
SCENE II. The Forum.
So call it: but it does fulfil my vow;
you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
farewell, bastard.
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and others
Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief
Thanks to you all, and leave us: fare you well.
Valiant and virtuous, full of haughty courage,
Or else beshrew them both.
Which cannot brook the accent of reproof.
And I, my lord, will bear him company.
And, being prostrate, thus he bade me say:
What dogs are these! Where is the rascal cook?
Your brother is imprison'd by your means,
would think a smock were a she-angel, he so chants
A great addition earned in thy death.
And here he writes that he did buy a poison
He heard the name of death.
By gar, he has save his soul, dat he is no come; he
Great Earl of Washford, Waterford and Valence;
Know'st thou the way to Dover?
Speak out thy sorrows which thou bring'st in haste,
A trial, come.
Madam, be still; with reverence may I say;
Sir, sir, I will have law in Ephesus,
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
[Aside]  How well this honest mirth becomes their labour!
I have a daughter, sir, called Katharina.
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
think I have wit enough to lie straight in my bed:
Speak, Salisbury; at least, if thou canst speak:
Her father is Baptista Minola,
My care is loss of care, by old care done;
Should by the minute feed on life and lingering
Did he confess it?
And wish the estate o' the world were now undone.
Which have for long run by the hideous law,
Since I can reason of it. Pray you, trust me here:
Thump.
When shall I hear all through? This fierce
Ah, sweet ducks!
To make my end too sudden: learn, good soul,
you, base peasants, do ye believe him? will you
Her boat hath a leak,
And made us doff our easy robes of peace,
Or hedge aside from the direct forthright,
Return'd so soon! rather approach'd too late:
He may recover yet.
We will be satisfied; let us be satisfied.
Nor pluck it from his finger, for the wealth
Patience her injury a mockery makes.
The broken rancour of your high-swoln hearts,
ACT II
Where is this rash and most unfortunate man?
A birth, and death?
How quickly were it gone!
With what encounter so uncurrent I
Is it so, sir?
Unbind my sons, reverse the doom of death;
Pray, let us go.
Fillip the stars; then let the mutinous winds
First Serving-man	Nay, if we be forbidden stones,
Courteous lord, one word.
Upon his brow shame is ashamed to sit;
Nay, I shall ne'er be ware of mine own wit till I
To FERDINAND
What is't your highness' pleasure I shall do at
The one in fear to lose what they enjoy,
And whether we shall meet again I know not.
Enter CLEOPATRA
If you be one, as you are well express'd
The actors are come hither, my lord.
beggar wont her brat; and, I think when he hath
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
So should I rob my sweet sons of their fee:
between me and Ford's wife?
Have too a woman's heart; which ever yet
By penitence the Eternal's wrath's appeased:
And so did I:--Well, we were born to die.
Still met the king? loved him next heaven?
Enter HELENA, disguised like a Pilgrim
Is left untender'd.
what she would have given; briefly, I have pursued
Good morrow, then.
While I use further conference with Warwick.
We will not fail.
Or whether he be 'scaped away or no
The fit is momentary; upon a thought
no, no, this left shoe is my mother: nay, that
O'erpays all I can do. By this, your king
The execution of his wit, hands, heart,
To go with Paris to Saint Peter's Church,
And, for the time shall not seem tedious,
By all your vows of love and that great vow
More blessed hap did ne'er befall our state.
Exit Sergeant, attended
travel, that hath seen the world; but let that pass.
I am for you again: pray you, sit by us,
Let her approach.
sufficient. Yet his means are in supposition: he
Save me, and hover o'er me with your wings,
Enter OSWALD
Enter FLAVIUS, MARULLUS, and certain Commoners
Would I were dead! if God's good will were so;
All this is so: but what of this, my lord?
the matter, he makes the maid to answer 'Whoop, do me
And perfected by the swift course of time.
And gives the crutch the cradle's infancy:
BISHOP
My foot my tutor? Put thy sword up, traitor;
Tantaene animis coelestibus irae?
And never come mischance between us twain!
That I shall lose distinction in my joys;
But his occasion might have woo'd me first;
I say the earth did shake when I was born.
'Tis said, my liege, in Yorkshire are in arms.
All health unto my gracious sovereign!
We will do it: let him be sent for to-morrow,
Were lovers too! Ill, to example ill,
As when a giant dies.
Muster your wits; stand in your own defence;
indeed, cannot abide 'em; they are very ill-favored
How's this? We must take another course with you.
Many a poor man's son would have lien still
And, to prevent the worst, Sir Michael, speed:
We sucking on her natural bosom find,
And celebrate our drink?
To be thy nurses! Wolves and bears, they say
I hope, sir, three times thrice, sir,--
No.
other day. I said, thou hadst a fine wit: 'True,'
Come now, your one thing.
harm, and the greatest of my pride is to see my ewes
Show me the place:
I am resolved to bear a greater storm
Which makes me fear the enjoying of my love:
[Aside]  Her looks do argue her replete with modesty;
Thy scarlet robes as a child's bearing-cloth
Let me see thine eyes: wink now: now open them:
Until thy head be circled with the same.
So please your majesty, my master hath been an
When he was here,
I like him very well.
Apemantus' grace.
If where thou art two villains shall not be,
That loves his mistress more than in confession,
if you hold your life at any price, betake you to
Music. Re-enter Cupid with a mask of Ladies  as Amazons, with lutes in their hands, dancing and playing
Madam, I had rather--
He's scarce awake: let him alone awhile.
When she, poor hen, fond of no second brood,
To dew her orbs upon the green.
court, and they are going to meet him.
Mark you this, Bassanio,
Ah, York, no man alive so fain as I!
Please it your grace, there is a messenger
An arm as big as thine? a heart as big?
Why then for Venus' sake, give me a kiss,
behalf of the maid; for I knew the young count to be
Farewell! God knows when we shall meet again.
I'll speak it in my spirit and honour, 'no.'
I hope this reason stands for my excuse.
Where I will walk till thou return to me.
Your answer, sir.
Hast heavy substance; bleed'st not; speak'st; art sound.
Upon my party! Thou cold-blooded slave,
For joyful mother, one that wails the name;
Let me speak, sir,
Yes, madam.
Take that, and He that doth the ravens feed,
Yes, if it please your majesty, my liege.
O Perdita, what have we twain forgot!
That we may bring you something on the way.
to him shortly as bitter as coloquintida. She must
That look'd upon't. Here comes the good Macduff.
To make a stale of me amongst these mates?
Brutus will start a spirit as soon as Caesar.
If opportunity and humblest suit
Even to the point of envy, if 'twere made
More free from motion, no, not Death himself
Exeunt
As I perceive she does: there's something in't
Go cheerfully together and digest.
Hath not deserved my service nor your loves;
To rescue my two brothers from their death:
A very drudge of nature's, have subdued me
Should notwithstanding join our lights together
Which heavy sorrow makes them apt unto:
I could not but by her. The other motive,
I'll keep you company. Will you along?
A drop of Grecian blood: the end crowns all,
O noble sir,
comes that the wenches say 'God damn me;' that's as
There will little learning die then, that day thou
What is thy news then?
No, indeed, he is not.
A love that makes breath poor, and speech unable;
Exeunt
Laertes, you shall hear them. Leave us.
testiness, shall turn all into my commendations. My
Then, worthy Marcius,
To rest mistrustful where a noble heart
My Lord Sands,
He threw his wounded arm and kiss'd his lips;
He wills you, in the name of God Almighty,
I, gentle mistress.
Or lose my labour in assaying it.
They shall not live within this world, I swear,
It shall be speeded well.
Hey, Mountain, hey!
Lord mayor, the reason we have sent--
As our intents will need?
Re-enter BIONDELLO
Exit
Would ever with Marina be:
All 'long of this vile traitor Somerset.
Which thou didst force from Talbot, my brave boy:'
I will trust you. Walk before toward the sea-side;
Madam, good hope; his grace speaks cheerfully.
Yet I will favour thee in what I can.
One daughter, and a wench full grown,
First, lean thine aged back against mine arm;
Fitter for sickness and for crazy age.
So will this base and envious discord breed.
[Within]  Who knocks at the door?
Jove knows I love: But who?
He would pun thee into shivers with his fist, as a
Here is her father's house; I'll call aloud.
Or to the meanest groom.
Barren winter, with his wrathful nipping cold:
From my remembrance. And, besides, the king
And I would have it suddenly perform'd.
What imports the nomination of this gentleman?
with two broken points: his horse hipped with an
To bend the fatal instruments of war
Enter YORK
And since your coming hither have done enough
Dies ere the weary sun set in the west.
To make this creature fruitful!
Nay, but to live
For I would commune with you of such things
So in the world; 'tis furnish'd well with men,
On that celestial harmony I go to.
complement and ceremony of it. But are you
Nerissa, cheer yon stranger; bid her welcome.
How now, my lord! you desire to know
And, for an earnest of a greater honour,
Do overpeer the petty traffickers,
Ay, 'twas he that told me first:
In bolted language; meal and bran together
Son, list to this conjunction, make this match;
The goer-back. Why came you from your master?
I would I were;
Evermore cross'd and cross'd; nothing but cross'd!
Her bed is India; there she lies, a pearl:
Put we our quarrel to the will of heaven;
And here at hand the Dauphin and his train
Of disposition gentle, and of wisdom
The man is honest.
And she alone is heir to both of us:
Old Mantuan, old Mantuan! who understandeth thee
That he deserved the praise o' the world,
Not after our command. Away with her,
Now I arise:
And thou shalt be the third if this sword hold.
miscarried, my creditors grow cruel, my estate is
Of the death practised duke: for him 'tis well
To have free speech with you; and it concerns me
To spy an I can hear my Thisby's face. Thisby!
But, my good lord, this boy is forest-born,
Upon thee in the letter. Prithee, be content:
I laugh to see your ladyship so fond
Who wanteth food, and will not say he wants it,
Without addition or diminishing,
Should I not curse them. Poison be their drink!
And must they all be hanged that swear and lie?
I am so fraught with curious business that
Dispute not that: York is the worthier.
With some more ducats, and be with you straight.
Leave me with haste.
I'll try how you can sol, fa, and sing it.
With dignities becoming your estates.
This dagger hath mista'en--for, lo, his house
So thou mayst say, the king lies by a beggar, if a
The tomb is opened
And I have reason for it. Signior Antonio
I will be free from thee. What wouldst thou now? If
A gallant lady. Monsieur, fare you well.
All this amazement can I qualify:
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
speak this in hunger for bread, not in thirst for revenge.
Nay, to thy mere confusion, thou shalt know
And so, have at thee!
Hearing of your arrival in this realm,
The sway, revenue, execution of the rest,
Have misdemean'd yourself, and not a little,
[Within]  What, ho! my lord, my lord!
So your desires are yours.
Since things in motion sooner catch the eye
Is it but this,--a tardiness in nature
And I'll salute your grace of York as mother,
Sirrah Jack, thy horse stands behind the hedge:
I find him a fit fellow.
or, rather, as you say, my mother: therefore no
O, ay: stalk on. stalk on; the fowl sits. I did
written, that the shoemaker should meddle with his
Proceed, Solinus, to procure my fall
He craves a parley at your father's house,
I never practised it.
But all the honour Salisbury hath won
Let me be thought too busy in my fears--
predeceased valour and dare not avouch in your deeds
And prove the period of their tyranny,
Let not that doctor e'er come near my house:
As potent as a lord's. Will you go yet?
Who then? his spirit?
Lie not a night from home; watch me like Argus:
Madam!
That is your part: yet I am advised to do it;
What man is that?
A chair brought in
And once again I do receive thee honest.
Within the infant rind of this small flower
We'll lead you thither.
Wherefore?
wholesome, we might guess they relieved us humanely;
And Richard but a ragged fatal rock?
Ajax offers to beat him
Come, come, no more of that.
Upon the love and truth and vows which I
Time out o' mind the fairies' coachmakers.
But when I came unto my beds,
He goes away in a cloud: call him, call him.
To the most of men this is a Caliban
Some dear friend dead; else nothing in the world
And, if thou darest, I'll give thee remedy.
And do not spread the compost on the weeds,
Both disobedience and ingratitude
Make forth; the generals would have some words.
More at your request than to please myself.
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
carry them:
no boast of it; and for your writing and reading,
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
fast enough of themselves, and to call 'horum:' fie upon you!
ACT III
clean linen; and let not him that plays the lion
Whither straight I'll lead you.
Or let me die, to look on death no more!
but blow them to their trial, the bubbles are out.
Can you tell if Rosalind, the duke's daughter, be
Defile the locks of your shrill-shrieking daughters;
Than what he chooses.
My dukedom since you have given me again,
faults hid!
Until confirm'd, sign'd, ratified by you.
Marry, sir, to bid my old master the
In honest plainness thou hast heard me say
To see another thus. I know not what to say.
I know you have determined to bestow her
A plague upon this howling! they are louder than
my stops; you would pluck out the heart of my
For fear lest day should look their shames upon,
What, I pray you?
Where the quick freshes are.
Will cry it o'er again: it is a hint
Unless it be to think that she is by
With his prepared sword, he charges home
into my note.
Marry, I thank you for it; I thank you for that good
Sir, I thank you.
Which Caesar and his fortune bare at once.
Of my child's love: I think she will be ruled
I go. Come, Nell, thou wilt ride with us?
Or my divine soul answer it in heaven.
True; made the lame to leap and fly away.
To hear from me you had left Antony,
By fair persuasions mix'd with sugar'd words
And am right glad he is not standing here
But I hear, no; they say my son of York
for the time when. Now for the ground which; which,
Now I do frown on thee with all my heart;
I ne'er again shall see her. O thou mine heir
Walk round about an oak, with great ragg'd horns;
Or by the worth of man's eternal soul,
ACT I
And let her joy her raven-colour'd love;
They may vex us with shot, or with assault.
Stand, villain, stand, or I'll fell thee down. He
If she, my liege, can make me know this clearly,
Nay: in that you are astray, 'twere best pound you.
perform it.
hard as steel.
But send me Flavius first.
whole camp! or rather, the bone-ache! for that,
The glorious gods sit in hourly synod about thy
Come, come, good wine is a good familiar creature,
this year connive at us, and we may do any thing
something; make it a word and a blow.
Which now, two tender playfellows to dust,
But that my noble master will appear
DON
Made him give battle to the lioness,
That all the world shall--I will do such things,--
This is a dull sight. Are you not Kent?
horses, by our habits and by every other
Enter BARDOLPH
The world is still deceived with ornament.
What here shall miss, our toil shall strive to mend.
He comes upon a wish. Fortune is merry,
One drop of blood drawn from thy country's bosom
O, you, my lord? by Mars his gauntlet, thanks!
what a man cannot smell out, he may spy into.
The fraud of England, not the force of France,
Must bear the same proportion; and not ever
I have been sometimes there.
These ruin'd pillars, out of pity, taken
As it hath much prevail'd on your condition,
I have a tree, which grows here in my close,
I am sure, sweet Kate, this kindness merits thanks.
that wise men have makes a great show. Here comes
How doth my dear morsel, thy mistress? Procures she
An 'twere my case, I should go hang myself.
Enter GONERIL and EDMUND
And thank heaven, fasting, for a good man's love:
Prove that I cannot, take me home again,
And for that offence
Exit Worcester
just and his quarrel honourable.
And Cassandra laughed.
But dreadful war shall answer his demand.
As misers do by beggars, neither gave to me
And meet i' the hall together.
My husband say that she was false!
At least, good manners, as not thus to suffer
In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs.
The noblest; and do now not basely die,
They think they are mine; and though train'd
unmannerly slave, that will thrust himself into
The eating canker dwells, so eating love
Imagination of some great exploit
Sometime for three-foot stool mistaketh me;
Exeunt soldiers
Sir Proteus, as I take it.
His countenance for the battle; which being done,
My subjects for a pair of carved saints
But to be rough, unswayable and free.
The flat unraised spirits that have dared
Why, you are so fat, Sir John, that you must needs
Demand.
Here is a box; I had it from the queen:
For long agone I have forgot to court;
This ancient morsel, this Sir Prudence, who
Agamemnon is a fool to offer to command Achilles;
Here am I left to underprop his land,
Romeo, come forth; come forth, thou fearful man:
Snug, the joiner; you, the lion's part: and, I
better--their writers do them wrong, to make them
But if thy arms be to no other end,
I only have made a mouth of his eye,
But what at full I know, thou know'st no part,
I do bite my thumb, sir.
His dignity and duty both cast off--
What treasure, uncle?
Our arms, in strength of malice, and our hearts
To please his grandam, never trust me more.
How long have you been a sectary astronomical?
too was no good divinity. When the rain came to
you shall go; so shall you, Master Page; and you, Sir Hugh.
To doubt the equivocation of the fiend
Thou shalt be borne to that same ancient vault
Here, as I point my sword, the sun arises,
In most uneven and distracted manner. His actions
If it be that, or any that was hers,
This day's black fate on more days doth depend;
It is a recreation to be by
A maid, they say.
dearer love.
I have got strength of limit. Now, my liege,
Let all the ends thou aim'st at be thy country's,
And utters it again when God doth please:
Therefore I took your hands, but was, indeed,
Of golden sovereignty; acquaint the princess
You do not counsel well:
Then, Saunder, sit there, the lyingest knave in
Saying our grace is only in our heels,
Enter SEBASTIAN
That have inflamed desire in my breast
As I had rather hide me from my greatness,
Thou ominous and fearful owl of death,
No, my lord,
And some condemned for a fault alone.
And will to France, hoping the consequence
Pantingly forth, as if it press'd her heart:
To be revenged on him.
Success to the Roman host.
What Trojan is that same that looks so heavy?
To make coals cheap,--a noble memory!
I do excuse you; yea, upon mine honour,
Revengingly enfeebles me; or could this carl,
Most mighty prince, my Lord Northumberland,
For thou wilt lie upon the wings of night
But accidents unpurposed. Draw, and come.
For she his hairy temples then had rounded
Would have mourn'd longer--married with my uncle,
Shall change all griefs and quarrels into love.
You have known him long; and be you well assured
The advised head defends itself at home;
A boar-spear in my hand; and--in my heart
I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.
you give me touch my palate adversely, I make a
I am a feather for each wind that blows:
Go you, Malvolio: if it be a suit from the count, I
brother Troilus went not?
As doth a rock against the chiding flood,
Draws, and is charmed from moving
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
Can do no service on her sorrowful cheeks.
Fortune is an excellent moral.
Glad at the thing they scowl at.
No doubt but he hath got a quiet catch.
'Tis deeds must win the prize; and he of both
Hard, hard. O filthy traitor!
[Starting up]  No assure you; the wall is down that
Be quiet then as men should be,
Nay, come, let's go together.
DON
No, nor thy tailor, rascal,
Hath show'd him gold; my life is spann'd already:
All disconsolate,
But you should pity me!
Who bids thee call? I do not bid thee call.
Thou factious Duke of York, descend my throne,
Nor arm, nor face, nor any other part
quit. O, the charity of a penny cord! It sums up
You have not patience; come.
A lady to the worthiest sir that ever
Woe, woe are we, sir, you may not live to wear
Sweet Sir Toby, be patient for tonight: since the
DON
Teach her the way.
The selfsame sun that shines upon his court
But soft, I pray you; did King Richard then
If aught possess thee from me, it is dross,
Do bid it welcome.
I remember
Which manifold record not matches? See,
To bless this twain, that they may prosperous be
Let me question more in particular: what have you,
Drawing
To be a public spectacle to all:
Which is the lady I must seize upon?
I see the jewel best enamelled
Never bestrid a horse, save one that had
Why, then I would not fly. Ah, Montague,
Sad and solemn music
The king, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
At the first opening of the gorgeous east,
addition in French, Notre trescher fils Henri, Roi
All Greek, and this all Troy; my mother's blood
Do you but strike the blow.
For I have more to commune with Bianca.
A greater power than we can contradict
Come, sister, you shall be the priest and marry us.
Methinks, I could deal kingdoms to my friends,
And citizens to their dens: the death of Antony
That I am meek and gentle with these butchers!
Stand close up, or I'll make your head ache.
Adieu, good master doctor.
One fire drives out one fire; one nail, one nail;
Then you, belike, suspect these noblemen
It is backed like a weasel.
My father was a Mortimer,--
The trick of that voice I do well remember:
Heaven knows, they were besmear'd and over-stain'd
Plots have I laid, inductions dangerous,
Because methinks that she loved you as well
I thank thee: lead me on.
Than is my deed to my most painted word:
The faults of fools but folly.
Crowned with faith and constant loyalty.
In my penurious band: I have heard, and grieved,
Yea, art thou there?
Enter BANQUO
Be assured, madam,
To lip a wanton in a secure couch,
It did always seem so to us: but now, in the
My father, Earl of Cambridge, lost his head.
As to the legitimate: fine word,--legitimate!
He sent me hither, stranger as I am,
Saddle white Surrey for the field to-morrow.
That is, to watch her, as we watch these kites
Pray God you have not murdered some of them.
Call them forth quickly; we will do so.
If therefore you dare trust my honesty,
That in himself which he spurs on his power
I meant to rectify my conscience,--which
I would out-night you, did no body come;
One that hath ever been God's enemy:
The while I'll place you: then the boy shall sing;
[Aside]  I'll meet you at the turn. What a
That he hath not.
We have again. Remember, sir, my liege,
The king is set from London; and the scene
My deeds upon my head! I crave the law,
I am not so well as I should be, but I'll ne'er out.
There will I visit Cleon, for the babe
That's somewhat sudden:
I shall, my lord.
He gives his hand to WARWICK
SCENE III. A room in the palace.
a boy for a girl. If I had been married to him, for
thee; look thee, a bearing-cloth for a squire's
Therefore they thought it good you hear a play
wear his sting? In his tail.
Thou hast undone thyself, thy son and me;
she's a fair lady: I do spy some marks of love in
Was deep-sworn faith, peace, amity, true love
There 's nothing serious in mortality:
Death, that dark spirit, in 's nervy arm doth lie;
Gave sign for me to leave you: so I did;
The purple violets, and marigolds,
Ay, my lord, an't please you.
The southern wind
Well, you are come to me in a happy time;
embattled against me. What say you to't, Sir John?
You saw one here in court could witness it.
A fixed figure for the time of scorn
Of Buckingham to welcome them ashore.
Upon her patient breast, making their way
ANTIPHOLUS
I pray thee, moralize them.
It does, my lord.
Our ears vouchsafe it.
Nay, he can make obligations, and write court-hand.
It cannot be but thou hast murder'd him;
both your houses! 'Zounds, a dog, a rat, a mouse, a
Ha!
But will they come when you do call for them?
Who, in the conflict that it holds with death,
an honest man should have, he has nothing.
And such a wall, as I would have you think,
Do you intend to stay with me tonight?
O, sir, I find her milder than she was;
Like rats that ravin down their proper bane,
I would not be a young count in your way,
Of Dun Adramadio, Dun Adramadio.
tongues: therefore follow me, and I direct you how
Might we but have that happiness, my lord, that you
Here.
To ROSALINE
Approach the chamber, and destroy your sight
My most dread sovereign, may it like your grace
Now, mistress, profit you in what you read?
Like a strange soul upon the Stygian banks
Away!
Such is the simplicity of man to hearken after the flesh.
Whose tongue more poisons than the adder's tooth!
Your eyes drop millstones, when fools' eyes drop tears:
Roaming clean through the bounds of Asia,
Is spotless reputation: that away,
Where is but a humour or a worm.
Into his ears; I may say, thrusting it;
Hirtius and Pansa, consuls, at thy heel
Take the devil in thy mind, and relieve him not: he
'Twould be too tedious to repeat;
It must be done this afternoon.
Exeunt all but PETRUCHIO
Therefore, as he is an ass, let him go.
Wilt thou believe me, Hal? three or four bonds of
This prophecy Merlin shall make; for I live before his time.
About surrender up of Aquitaine
rhyme; for 'scorn,' 'horn,' a hard rhyme; for,
Now Valentine is banish'd from her sight.
Then vail your stomachs, for it is no boot,
Troy, yet upon his basis, had been down,
ANTIPHOLUS
And damn'd be him that first cries, 'Hold, enough!'
We do deliver you. Get you therefore hence,
If Helen then be wife to Sparta's king,
The sister to my wife, this gentlewoman,
Because that John hath made his peace with Rome?
Would you proceed especially against Caius Marcius?
Come, blade, my breast imbrue:
depends on it than we must yet deliver. Thus fail
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
They lie indrench'd. I tell thee I am mad
But I should know her as well as she knows me.
twice on the banns; such a commodity of warm slaves,
For the most gentle Claudio.
For worse than Philomel you used my daughter,
O'ercharging your free purses with large fines,
If to reprove you for this suit of yours,
I pray you, leave me.
A prize, a prize, a prize!
Have you a father?
Than die ere I hear more: strive, man, and speak.
Ay, fool; is that a shame? Note but this fool.
Whom, though in general part we were opposed,
Hark, one word in your ear.
Himself with princes; one that, by suggestion,
Poor Tom's a-cold.
Henry hath money, you are strong and manly;
letter: I have ere now, sir, been better known to
Well, praised be the gods for thy foulness!
Make choice; and, see,
fie!
Exeunt
Your tale, sir, would cure deafness.
Exit
town is beseeched, and the trumpet call us to the
Became two spouts: the fury spent, anon
Where think'st thou he is now? Stands he, or sits he?
Under the shade of melancholy boughs,
Yet so my fancy may be satisfied,
And the device he bears upon his shield
I hear a knocking
Are arms to princes, and bring joys to subjects.
Parts from this finger, then parts life from hence:
That were some spite: my invocation
Tut, I can counterfeit the deep tragedian;
welcome. I reckon this always, that a man is never
The law hath yet another hold on you.
The cardinal instantly will find employment,
Come, coz; come, coz; we stay for you. A word with
Which better fits a lion than a man.
And as he pluck'd his cursed steel away,
Unless a pardon ere I rise or speak.
True, noble prince.
This gentleman, whom I call Polydore,
And made me almost yield upon my knees.
Were he more angry at it.
O noble prince, I can discover all
Lords, view these letters full of bad mischance.
Tell me precisely of what complexion.
Hero was in this manner accused, in this very manner
Not I, but my affairs, have made you wait:
And I another.
This night I hold an old accustom'd feast,
Have leave and leisure to make love to her
King Pepin, which deposed Childeric,
let no man take care for himself; for all is
Who's there? What is't you seek?
And not with such a cruel threatening look.
But, failing of her end by his strange absence,
Upon the beached verge of the salt flood;
And a petition granted them, a strange one--
Come challenge me, challenge me by these deserts,
Who, with a charm join'd to their suffer'd labour,
Than still contemn'd and flatter'd. To be worst,
Your majesty shall mock at me; I cannot speak your England.
Which still hath been both grave and prosperous,
We may as well push against Powle's, as stir em.
face me out of my wits.
hath got, as I take it, an ague. Where the devil
Why seek'st thou to possess me with these fears?
Dies
Unto a lineal true-derived course.
Resolve thee, Richard; claim the English crown.
Wilt thou be lord of all the world?
Receive it from me. I speak not yet of proof.
[Within]  Break any breaking here, and I'll break your
I do to spite the world.
Should we be silent and not speak, our raiment
The great assay of art; but at his touch--
'Twill vex thy soul to hear what I shall speak;
Possession of a subject.
Will parley with Jack Cade their general:
[Aside]	O noble strain!
To make them kings, the seed of Banquo kings!
I will wait on him, fair Mistress Anne.
Now, gods, stand up for bastards!
Undo that prayer, by crying out as loud,
To give them seals never, my soul, consent!
Here let us breathe and haply institute
gap in your own honour, and shake in pieces the
According to our proclamation gone?
but twelve persons there; is this true?
I will fly, like a dog, the heels o' the ass.
Compell'd these skipping kerns to trust their heels,
That makes the world full of ill-favour'd children:
[Within]  An answer from the king, my
The vigour and the picture of my youth:
If I do not put on a sober habit,
As if this flesh which walls about our life,
The way it takes, cracking ten thousand curbs
himself could not have prevented, if he had been
What stays had I but they? and they are gone.
My lord protector, so it please your grace,
This noble isle doth want her proper limbs;
Enter Prince, attended; MONTAGUE, CAPULET, their Wives, and others
And so have I a noble father lost;
Were't not a shame, that whilst you live at jar,
Breaks out to savage madness. Look he stirs:
And in the temple of great Jupiter
Offend you in my life; never loved Cassio
Not in this land shall he remain uncaught;
For mercy to his country. Therefore, let's hence,
His word upon you. Since I had my office,
Why, he but sleeps:
Which must be done by praising me as much
But how hath she
This is the rarest dream that e'er dull sleep
To FABIAN
So, in the famous ancient city, Tours,
Excellent.
Do one pluck down another and together
Ha, ha, ha!
To strike me, spurn me, nay, to kill me too:
Thy back, I prithee.
The Dauphin longs for morning.
Venetian, a scholar and a soldier, that came hither
Give me their bodies, that I may bear them hence
DON
Or fortune given me measure of revenge.
Richer than all his tribe; of one whose subdued eyes,
Teach not thy lips such scorn, for they were made
Senseless! not so.
Sir, a word ere you go;
If any one relieves or pities him,
As bombast and as lining to the time:
Beseech you, tribunes, hear me but a word.
To name the bigger light, and how the less,
Excellent, madame!
The sound is going away; let's follow it, and
How furious and impatient they be,
Shall be transported presently to France.
This is not Romeo, he's some other where.
Mercy o' me, what a multitude are here!
And a chain, that you once wore, about his neck.
This evening, on the east side of the grove.
such meet food to feed it as Signior Benedick?
Let's fight it out and not stand cavilling thus.
But release me from my bands
The men of Tyrus on the head
What, are there but three?
me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
Foretold should be his last, full of repentance,
Honest! good fellow, what's that? If it be a day
If underneath the standard of the French
his to her: it was a violent commencement, and thou
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
Thy noble deeds as valour's monuments.
Pray you, a word.
Indeed, he hath an excellent good name.
To kiss her burial. Should I go to church
Well then, it now appears you need my help:
Doth fancy any other but Lucentio?
And brother-love I do it.
I thank your worship. For mine own part, I never
And takest it all for jest.
To me she's married, not unto my clothes:
But that the sea, mounting to the welkin's cheek,
Killing that love which thou hast vow'd to cherish;
Offering the fortunes of his former days,
If thou be merciful,
Who art thou? say, that I may honour thee.
Keeps still in Dunsinane, and will endure
for if the devil be within and that temptation
But do not look for further recompense
Swifter than the wandering moon.
for the light in thy face, the son of utter
To this your son is mark'd, and die he must,
But I shall do thee mischief in the wood.
Until I meet the king.
O, no, you shall not go.
So do we.
Of his oath-breaking; which he mended thus,
For these contempts.
I have felt so many quirks of joy and grief,
My inch of taper will be burnt and done,
Make sacred even his stirrup, and through him
conversant in general services, and more remarkable
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
hates nothing more than he. Yet he's gentle, never
Marry, you are the wiser man; for many a man's
In music, instruments and poetry,
With one that saw him die: who did report
Pluck out his poor old eyes; nor thy fierce sister
And take her by the hand, whose worth and honesty
Lords, give us leave; the Prince of Wales and I
He prays but faintly and would be denied;
Thou liest.
And which, without desert, because thine eye
A braver soldier never couched lance,
So young, and so untender?
he weeps like a wench that had shed her milk: he
Ay, indeed, was he.
But, Katharine, what was sent to you from fair Dumain?
In debating which was best, we shall part with neither.
element shows to him as it doth to me; all his
To yield possession to my holy prayers
I found it by the barrenness; hard in the palm of the hand.
And firm for Doctor Caius, hath appointed
How now! what means this, herald? know'st thou not
If sanctimony be the gods' delight,
The mansion where!--'twas at a feast,--O, would
He's gentle and not fearful.
That King Leontes shall not have an heir
What, hath thy fiery heart so parch'd thine entrails
To see if any mean to shrink from me.
He hath spoken true: the very dice obey him;
whoreson must be acknowledged. Do you know this
Nay, lay thee down and roar;
Romeo slew Tybalt, Romeo must not live.
But what comes from myself, it shall scarce boot me
As any in Vienna, on my word.
How she holds up the neb, the bill to him!
My breast can better brook thy dagger's point
confirmed countenance. I saw him run after a gilded
I'll cut thy throat.
To quit the fine for one half of his goods,
But the safer when 'tis back'd with France.
I will assume thy part in some disguise
If not, he foams at mouth and by and by
Some say that ravens foster forlorn children,
together. Villanous thoughts, Roderigo! when these
My lord,
Against my child, my daughter Hermia.
If she be false, O, then heaven mocks itself!
where I could not breed no contention with him; but
wooing. Neighbour, this is a gift very grateful, I am
No, madam.
My lord?
your kingly eyes: when I shall, first asking your
Ha, ha, ha!
Exeunt
Be collected:
Enter a Messenger
Well roared, Lion.
God forgive my sins, and pardon thee!
Enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM, at several doors
Here's packing, with a witness to deceive us all!
Whither go you, George? Hark you.
When he the ambitious Norway combated;
Lo, this is all:--nay, yet depart not so;
The thunder of my cannon shall be heard:
OF EPHESUS
Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Come hither, England's hope.
all the world to be cowards; for I, that never
Beauty and honour in her are so mingled
And to be talk'd with in sincerity,
Ever beloved and loving may his rule be!
There all is marr'd; there lies a cooling card.
the state, and usurp the beggary he was never born
sport out of him: by his authority he remains here,
What say'st thou? wilt thou be of our consort?
With all advantages.
Your last service was sufferance, 'twas not
Ay, at Philippi.
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO and FRIAR THOMAS
Beshrew me, but his passion moves me so
But yet be true.
where's the chain? I pray you, let me see it.
Exeunt THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, EGEUS, and train
Woe to the land that's govern'd by a child!
Cursed be that heart that forced us to this shift!
It shall be so, it shall be so.
think me still no gentleman born: you were best say
As these before thee thou thyself shalt bleed.
Patience is scottish, and impatience does
Ay me, this object kills me!
Dexterity so obeying appetite
Weeds of Athens he doth wear:
What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the
Put on their instruments. Receive what cheer you may:
'Tis true, my liege; this ring I had of her.
In the sick air: let not thy sword skip one:
Let not to-morrow then ensue to-day;
If Bertram be away. 'Twere all one
She's a most exquisite lady.
Or, shedding, breed a nursery of like evil,
And do invite you to my sister's view,
themselves all men of hair, they call themselves
With such a zealous laughter, so profound,
To get her cunning schoolmasters to instruct her?
Now march we hence: discharge the common sort
Why, now thou hast unwish'd five thousand men;
It is not meet you know how Caesar loved you.
That bears the name of life? Yet in this life
Enter SIR WALTER BLUNT
Poor soul, thy face is much abused with tears.
Disguise us at my lodging and return,
This story shall the good man teach his son;
And shall she carry this unto her grave?
Your actions are my dreams;
ANTIPHOLUS
And when the king comes, offer no violence,
Why, couldst thou perceive so much from her?
To view the sick and feeble parts of France:
If his occasion were not virtuous,
Not so, neither: but know that I have to-night
I was taken with none, sir: I was taken with a damsel.
Under Mars, I.
But seven years since, in Syracusa, boy,
Sing, siren, for thyself and I will dote:
Nay, I know not:
I am the Douglas, fatal to all those
Action and accent did they teach him there;
for one fair French maid that stands in my way.
Send him but hither, and I'll fashion him.
And have you mercy too! I never did
To cozen him that would unjustly win.
Ay,
Nay, let 'em be unmanly, yet are follow'd.
About the ninth hour, lady.
And blessed shall he be that doth revolt
But cheerly seek how to redress their harms.
And in her train there is a gentle lady;
good strings to your beards, new ribbons to your
manners, Kate; and the liberty that follows our
And fix'd on spiritual object, he should still
From such a noble rate; but my chief care
'tis I love; and yet 'tis a woman; but what woman, I
Enter seven or eight Citizens
To the laundress, forsooth.
Enter MENENIUS and Senators
Boldly, at least. But, O, poor souls,
If you dare not trust that you see, confess not
Do I live dead that live to tell it now.
And bear this work of heaven with patience:
The profit of the state. For your great graces
To trust man on his oath or bond;
That do contrive how many hands shall strike,
By thy approach thou makest me most unhappy.
Exit
And call'd it Rougemont: at which name I started,
And winds of all the comers kiss'd your sails,
forestall their repair hither, and say you are not
Longing for what it had not; nay, the dust
SCENE V. A public road.
Negligent student! learn her by heart.
O, meaning you. I will go learn more of it.
Doth he lay claim to thine inheritance?
Aside
Who wrongs him?
From these that my poor company detest:
she carves, she gives the leer of invitation: I
I will not tarry; no, nor ever more
The secret of your conference?
So clear, so shining and so evident
Attend his further pleasure.
And being fap, sir, was, as they say, cashiered; and
That daily break-vow, he that wins of all,
love me for this, take me: if not, to say to thee
Yield up, O love, thy crown and hearted throne
Modest as morning when she coldly eyes
You say he dined at home; the goldsmith here
What are you there? Your names?
Of the old, feeble and day-wearied sun,
Here is the guess of their true strength and forces
Is she not a modest young lady?
It mourns that painting and usurping hair
If I sent him word again 'it was not well cut,' he
I praised her as I rated her: so do I my stone.
Where hath it slept? Where is my mother's care,
Enter OBERON and TITANIA with their train
He is wit's pedler, and retails his wares
Looks handsome in three hundred pounds a-year!
I shall deliver so. Thanks to your highness.
That other men begin.
Boskos vauvado: I understand thee, and can speak
Alarums to the battle. Enter WARWICK
To punish me with this and this with me,
This were kindness.
To all our sorrows, and ere long I doubt.
Fear not, Baptista; we will content you, go to: but
A prophet to the fall of all our foes!
Our best friends made, our means stretch'd
We would purge the land of these drones, that rob
Of here and every where. Straight satisfy yourself:
For our beloved mother in her pains.
Exeunt all but ULYSSES and NESTOR
And so did I.
Yet, ere thou go, but answer me one doubt,
Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and others
Did seem to say 'Seek not a scorpion's nest,
Even till I shrink with cold, I smile and say
appoint them a place of meeting, wherein it is at
Have I with all my full affections
Exeunt severally PRIAM and HECTOR. Alarums
shelter hereabouts: misery acquaints a man with
to-night at my house; where I will desire thee to
Here is Sir Diomed. Go, gentle knight,
To the succession of new days this month:
And you will rather show our general louts
The mirror of all courtesy;--
There's two of you; the devil make a third!
Quoth she, before you tumbled me,
Whereof we have record, trial did draw
Should conquer Antony; but woe 'tis so!
They are too thin and bare to hide offences.
Where horses have been nimbler than the sands
To fit your fancies to your father's will;
Thither go these news, as fast as horse can
Be valiant and give signal to the fight.
But to be still hot summer's tamings and
To give thee nightly visitation.
Clapp'd to their gates: he is himself alone,
Call ye the warlike Talbot, for his acts
which will give language to you, cat: open your
he was a wise fellow, and had good discretion, that,
say, when the age is in, the wit is out: God help
One face, one voice, one habit, and two persons,
as lief have been myself alone.
And men are flesh and blood, and apprehensive;
Some vanity of mine art: it is my promise,
You, minion, are too saucy.
And make him with our pikes and partisans
But, look, where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
Break an hour's promise in love! He that will
He cannot, sir; he's out at elbow.
Mark Antony I served, who best was worthy
In country footing.
But he; as loving his own pride and purposes,
The poor remainder of Andronici
Our prayers do out-pray his; then let them have
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Wherefore to Dover? Wast thou not charged at peril--
Does now speak to thee, I embrace thy body;
Kill'd her, for whom my tears have made me blind.
Or a harlot, for her weeping;
Or say 'tis not your seal, nor your invention:
Let me be ta'en, let me be put to death;
Unto a mad-brain rudesby full of spleen;
Be not so hot; the duke
A wightly wanton with a velvet brow,
Enter CASSANDRA, raving
SCENE I. A room in a castle.
Good father, I beseech you on my knees,
That noble minds keep ever with their likes;
Do so: farewell.
inexplicable dumbshows and noise: I would have such
When you durst do it, then you were a man;
With league whose date till death shall never end.
Mark your divorce, young sir,
It was wise nature's end in the donation,
Enter HELENA
Good Norfolk, hie thee to thy charge;
Thank you.
What is your name?
Under device and practise.
His love sincere, his thoughts immaculate,
Six of his labours you'ld have done, and saved
Being purged, a fire sparkling in lovers' eyes;
Did you say all? O hell-kite! All?
You have conspired against our royal person,
as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do: and
once to all the points o' the compass.
More upon humour than advised respect.
Matter against him that for ever mars
Qu'ai-j'oublie! dere is some simples in my closet,
Delight in them sets off: some kinds of baseness
Art thou thus bolden'd, man, by thy distress,
chiding than a great deal of heart-break.
And I to this.
If law, authority and power deny not,
Young York he is but boot, because both they
From off our coast, twice beaten; and his shipping--
Upon a dwarfish thief.
words are grown so false, I am loath to prove
[Within]  Fathom and half, fathom and half! Poor Tom!
And a good lady, and a wise and virtuous
Sweet varied notes, enchanting every ear!
Come, good Lorenzo. Fare ye well awhile:
Not she which burns in't. I'll not call you tyrant;
magistrates.
The bravest questant shrinks, find what you seek,
name's Gonzago: the story is extant, and writ in
With gentle conference, soft and affable.
Such short-lived wits do wither as they grow.
Thy letters may be here, though thou art hence;
And I am sent expressly to your lordship.
This hand was made to handle naught but gold.
That unsubstantial death is amorous,
I tender 't here; I do as truly suffer
For if we too be one and thou play false,
might be the pate of a politician, which this ass
b, spelt backward, with the horn on his head?
Yes; if there were no other excuse why they should
Shall I for love speak treason to thy face?
My mother a Plantagenet,--
Or something hath the nothing that I grieve:
Tickled with good success, disdains the shadow
I think this Talbot be a fiend of hell.
SCENE I. Antioch. A room in the palace.
Nay, not sound, I pray you.
The rather, if you could devise it so
O, know'st thou not his looks are my soul's food?
Why, when, I say? Nay, good sweet Kate, be merry.
His vices, you would say; there's no virtue whipped
They will digest this harsh indignity.
May turn the tide of fearful faction
On a dissension of a doit, break out
Good father cardinal, cry thou amen
a most festinate preparation: we are bound to the
A jewel in a ten-times-barr'd-up chest
As I have ever found thee honest-true,
I am sick of that grief too, as I understand how all
you, deliver.
With mill-stones.
O, 'tis the spite of hell, the fiend's arch-mock,
Exit
Did move your greatness and this noble state
And nothing grieves me heartily indeed
Ay, that I will, come cut and long-tail, under the
What should I say? his deeds exceed all speech:
Marry, this it is, sir.
Shall I stay here to do't?  no, no, although
And pinch'd the lily-tincture of her face,
You lean'd unto his sentence with what patience
He is elder.
converted I know not, but methinks you look with
truth, nor honesty in this bosom of thine; it is all
Not so well as plain-dealing, which will not cost a
How low am I? I am not yet so low
Well then, now
and I'll play my father.
But, sirrah, not for my sake, but your master's, I advise
The gentleness of all the gods go with thee!
That in civility thou seem'st so empty?
storms and tempests than almanacs can report: this
[Reads]  'that unlettered small-knowing soul,'--
Exit
I marvel your ladyship takes delight in such a
And if words will not, then our weapons shall.
As much as one sound cudgel of four foot--
You were lately whipped, sir, as I think.
To men of middle age. You're very welcome.
This is the point.
Had he done so, himself had borne the crown,
It is not well done, mark you now take the tales out
Where are your mess of sons to back you now?
No question.
The red wine first must rise
Stood pretty dimpled boys, like smiling Cupids,
As would take in some virtue. O my master!
Give me some token for the surety of it.
If there is one, I shall make two in the company.
SCENE I. Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Cloten, the son o' the queen. I fear some ambush.
That by this sympathized one day's error
I'll give thee a wind.
And trust me, love, in my eye so do you:
Taste of it first, as thou art wont to do.
Sweet blowse, you are a beauteous blossom, sure.
From this world-wearied flesh. Eyes, look your last!
Not to be gone from hence; for once I read
But ever puny whipster gets my sword:
No less! nay, bigger; women grow by men.
To cease this civil war, and, whilst I live,
Fetch forth the lazar kite of Cressid's kind,
your monster, and the devil take your fingers!
To say thou dost not: therefore tell me true;
To cureless ruin. I stand here for law.
But since he's gone, the king's seas must please:
The youth says well. Now hear our English king;
Why, you were with him, were you not?
A woman's will; a canker'd grandam's will!
Exit JULIA
No, trust me; she is peevish, sullen, froward,
And set the murderous Machiavel to school.
Exeunt
Than, living dully sluggardized at home,
That Hector, by the fifth hour of the sun,
And feast the army; we have store to do't,
For all her cherubim look.
O, thou didst then ne'er love so heartily!
His further gait herein; in that the levies,
Jove's Mercury, and herald for a king!
With groaning wretches; and your task shall be,
For him was I exchanged and ransomed.
And that shall be the ransom for their fault.
I'll fill your grave up: stir, nay, come away,
We know thy charge, Brakenbury, and will obey.
See, here he comes, and I must ply my theme.
Straight shall our nuptial rites be solemnized:
Pull off my boots: harder, harder: so.
Seize with thine eagle's talons.
No, by mine honour, madam.
Addicted so and so:' and there put on him
My royal nephew, and your name Capucius.
SCENE IV. Wales: before the cave of Belarius.
merry? shall we have a play extempore?
The trumpet sounds
And many an orphan's water-standing eye--
Ah, wherefore dost thou urge the name of hands;
Not a jot, not a jot.
All these old witnesses--I cannot err--
And on his grave-stone this insculpture, which
I could not stay behind you: my desire,
Exeunt PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, and GRUMIO
Till you compound whose right is worthiest,
fidiused for all the chests in Corioli, and the gold
in hand in sad conference: I whipt me behind the
For so he will'd it.
Sunshine and rain at once: her smiles and tears
You see we do, yet see you but our hands
Beguiled, divorced, wronged, spited, slain!
Music ceases
Was by a mousing owl hawk'd at and kill'd.
The sight of lovers feedeth those in love.
excellent voice, in this little organ; yet cannot
Yet ask.
Hail, great king!
I'll take her to my guard.
I do; and bear the shame most patiently.
'If not, let me see thee a servant still.'
No, no, he is dead:
Let us, Lepidus,
Which the dark night hath so discovered.
Of blue Olympus.
Hath not yet lighted, and our safest way
You would keep from my heels and beware of an ass.
On pain to be found false and recreant,
Prince Pericles,--
At thy affections, which do hold a wing
Numbering our Ave-Maries with our beads?
Like one that means his proper harm, in manacles,
I must hear from thee every day in the hour,
Madam!
notice to such men of sort and suit as are to meet
Should yet say 'Sir, no going.' Verily,
A headless man! The garments of Posthumus!
He bade me say so--more than all the sceptres
A shepherd's daughter.
But still sweet love is food for fortune's tooth.
How! no more!
Soft! who comes here? A friend of Antony's.
The prayers of holy saints and wronged souls,
Fair one, I think not so.
Searching the window for a flint, I found
Whose valour plucks dead lions by the beard;
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
The latter end of his commonwealth forgets the
Who was the model of thy father's life.
The treasury of life, when life itself
That none but I and my companion maid
To see great Hercules whipping a gig,
Some say the lark and loathed toad change eyes,
That, having our fair order written down,
What's the matter! there be four of us here have
'Tis but a peevish boy; yet he talks well;
Till he had done his sacrifice,
My fore-past proofs, howe'er the matter fall,
Turn not thy scorns this way, Plantagenet.
Let not the creaking of shoes nor the rustling of
meant, plain holy-thistle. You may think perchance
Out-go my thinking on you.
Amen, so I had mine: is not that a good word?
Protest their first of manhood.
I did not take my leave of him, but had
What, now?
And when she seem'd to shake and fear your looks,
Exit
And said 'Commend me to my valiant brother.'
And as the soldiers bore dead bodies by,
Good Enobarbus!
Only that the laws of England may come out of your mouth.
Ay. Fare you well, fair gentleman.
But what he look'd for should oppose and she
Not scurvy, nor a temporary meddler,
Freely, good father.
Yea, my lord; but I can cross it.
You may as well forbid the mountain pines
Do come to Dunsinane:'  and now a wood
We have ever your good word.
There's no time for a man to recover his hair that
Our duties, and the pledge.
great as the first in goodness, but greater a great
will be a biting affliction.
This fellow doth not stand upon points.
To tug and scamble and to part by the teeth
With which such scathful grapple did he make
for an ass.
will be like a jack-an-apes also, to burn the
This is the imposthume of much wealth and peace,
To compass such a boundless happiness!
I sell thee poison; thou hast sold me none.
Be not offended; for it hurts not him
and horror of it: pray you, away.
A leaner action rend us. What's amiss,
dissensions, and, I warrant you, it is the better for you.
To win the king as I am bold her honour
I feel 't upon my bones.
And then your highness shall command a peace.
There shall no figure at such rate be set
BISHOP
He loves your wife; there's the short and the long.
With ears that sweep away the morning dew;
me in manners the rather to express myself. You
Awake, sir, awake; speak to us.
and queen moult no feather. I have of late--but
My father's land, as was my father's will.
Dull, unmindful villain,
We must suggest the people in what hatred
Prithee, come; will you?
Your hand, your tongue: look like the innocent flower,
Again with Rome's mechanics: tell me not
Our windows are broke down in every street
To pray for her! Go to; it is a plague
beat it out of my hat: did you see my jewel?
By the sweet power of music: therefore the poet
vous avez le possession de moi,--let me see, what
Which towards you are most gentle, you shall find
Speak, Clifford, dost thou know who speaks to thee?
When she first met Mark Antony, she pursed up
Lord Saturninus Rome's great emperor,
when you may.
Means and attendants and my loving greetings
Make the sea serve them, which they ear and wound
Of shame seen through thy country, speed
But what I am, want teaches me to think on:
Better be held nor more attain'd than by
point, so to the full arming of the verity.
The very train of her worst wearing gown
Whilst, in the mildness of your sleepy thoughts,
It must be an answer of most monstrous size that
pinched with the colic, you make faces like
And melt in her own fire: proclaim no shame
To execute the like upon thyself;
Bloody constraint; for if you hide the crown
Every third thought shall be my grave.
He that stirs next to carve for his own rage
died: they say he made a good end,--
And there the snake throws her enamell'd skin,
With one that I have bred? The gods! it smites me
Here's neither bush nor shrub, to bear off
Our slaughter'd friends the tackles; what of these?
Exit SNOUT
Alive and dead, and for their brethren slain
Will touch us all too near, if God prevent not.
Strike off his head.
These Lincoln Washes have devoured them;
Thou art a Castalion-King-Urinal. Hector of Greece, my boy!
for the command, I'll lay't upon you. Cassio knows
But conquer'd merely.
On thine allegiance, hear me!
His venom tooth will rankle to the death:
Sing willow, willow, willow:
I never look'd for better at his hands,
Go, signify as much, while here we march
Than such that do e'en enemies exceed.
That lies on Dian's lap! thou visible god,
The blood of youth burns not with such excess
Madam, bethink you, like a careful mother,
So we be rid of them, do with 'em what thou wilt.
And is not like the sire: honours thrive,
Do not, my lord.
fright, to be detected with a jealous rotten
Trumpets
Why, then, good night indeed.
And wounds the earth, if nothing else, with rage
The little casket bring me hither.
the desire of the penitent to be so bared before his
To CAMILLO
Lord Cerimon, we do our longing stay
And take unmingled that same drop again,
Can buy this unprized precious maid of me.
As doth a sail, fill'd with a fretting gust,
My Lord Ulysses, tell me, I beseech you,
How didst thou know 'twas she? O she deceives me
So shall my name with slander's tongue be wounded,
Now, by the world--
To the protection of the prosperous gods,
As they pass by, pluck Casca by the sleeve;
Indeed, the short and the long is, I serve the Jew,
I have surely seen him:
A marvellous poor one.
For I am rightful heir unto the crown.
I saw her hand: she has a leathern hand.
For one being sued to, one that humbly sues;
I cannot weep; for all my body's moisture
Unless, perchance, you come to me again,
Then was the time for words: no going then;
Into the blind cave of eternal night.
But Romeo may not; he is banished:
And so with me: the great Antiochus,
Remembering that my love to her is dead;
But for thy sword and fortune, trod upon them,--
Bareheaded, lower than his proud steed's neck,
In undetermined differences of kings.
Exit
That has such people in't!
Unto the prince's heart of Calydon.
They'll grind the one the other. Where's Antony?
Thou art pinch'd fort now, Sebastian. Flesh and blood,
Like Perseus' horse: where's then the saucy boat
A bawbling vessel was he captain of,
I am sorry for 't; not seeming
No, they are both as whole as a fish.
I thank them for their tender loving care;
I think it is the weakness of mine eyes
Which argued thee a most unloving father.
Away,
Enter, in arms, LEWIS, SALISBURY, MELUN, PEMBROKE, BIGOT, and Soldiers
In which, good friar, I shall desire your help.
Rinaldo, you did never lack advice so much,
And he retires. Where should Othello go?
The worthy knight of Troy.
let us call thee devil!
Lies all within. Deliver me the key:
The even virtue of our enterprise,
disposed to be merry; I will laugh like a hyen, and
Go to, go to;
Enter PINDARUS
Go thou: I'll fetch some flax and whites of eggs
That shapes this monstrous apparition.
Ay, a tailor, sir: a stone-cutter or painter could
That I'll requite its last? No:
bring the doctor about by the fields. Will it do well?
that this is no time to lend money, especially upon
Why, uncle, 'tis a shame.
Exeunt Musicians
And all the trouble thou hast turn'd me to?
Ay, forsooth.
Peace, peace!
That makes her blood look out: good sooth, she is
I do not like this news.
grapes: if she had been blessed, she would never
can rhyme themselves into ladies' favours, they do
Love bade me swear and Love bids me forswear.
For me, I'll not be gone till I please myself:
As well assured Richard their king is dead.
The French are bravely in their battles set,
Why, that word makes the faults gracious. Well,
So, here comes a brace.
As well as it does you: and I should do it
This chain which now you wear so openly:
Doubtless he shrives this woman to her smock;
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Enter CYMBELINE, Lords, PISANIO, and Attendants
How have the hours rack'd and tortured me,
die.
I'll kill thee every where, yea, o'er and o'er.
And will by twos and threes at several posterns
We shall chide downright, if I longer stay.
In buckram?
As, in their birth--wherein they are not guilty,
What was the offence you gave him?
The chariest maid is prodigal enough,
carried away all that was in the king's tent;
Or close the wall up with our English dead.
Enter SPEED and LAUNCE severally
ANTIPHOLUS
[Reading out of a scroll]
I know that virtue to be in you, Brutus,
That will I show you presently.
You valiant offspring of great Priamus.
That frowns on me looks sadly upon him.
I'll send my prayers with him.
To try if thou be current gold indeed
That could not trace them!
Lucina lent not me her aid,
look you, is both alike. There is a river in
The spirit-stirring drum, the ear-piercing fife,
He water'd his new plants with dews of flattery,
Is this the poultice for my aching bones?
I mean, an we be in choler, we'll draw.
I will be very kind, and liberal
Have you any commission from your lord to negotiate
Sir tell me not of the father; I do fear colourable
Containing her affection unto Benedick.
Dying with mother's dug between its lips:
Why, madam, that is to the Isle of Man;
Action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech,
Why either were you ignorant to see't,
My shames redoubled! for the time will come,
Enter GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM, DERBY, HASTINGS, and RATCLIFF
be patient; there is no fettering of authority.
Look how we can, or sad or merrily,
rewards me, God reward him! If I do grow great,
Out of his rags! Here's a large mouth, indeed,
Once, and a million!
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, EXETER, GLOUCESTER,  WARWICK, SOMERSET, and SUFFOLK; the BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, RICHARD PLANTAGENET, and others.  GLOUCESTER offers to put up a bill; BISHOP OF WINCHESTER snatches it, and tears it
here, 'tis here. I have seen the time, with my long
music awhile, if they will fare so harshly o' the
Galling the gleaned land with hot assays,
Then, madam,
Myself have to mine own turn'd enemy:
My good Camillo,
Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then I'll sleep.
damned for this, the devil himself will have no
Even for that our love of old, I prithee,
Nay, good lieutenant,--alas, gentlemen;--
No, I say.
But truly, I do fear it.
Look, where he goes, even now, out at the portal!
Go to; 'homo' is a common name to all men. Bid the
As they pinch one another by the disposition, he
And smooth my way upon their headless necks;
SCENE II. The camp near Tamworth.
Go, bid the huntsmen wake them with their horns.
That e'er invention play'd on? tell me why.
[Within]  Right, sir; I'll tell you when, an you tell
And sigh'd his soul toward the Grecian tents,
FLAMINIUS waiting. Enter a Servant to him
Alas, that Warwick had no more forecast,
You are full of pretty answers. Have you not been
Enter PAROLLES
He something seems unsettled.
Sir, I have brought my lord the archbishop,
My noble lord and father, live in fame!
The allusion holds in the exchange.
When thou dost meet good hap; and in thy danger,
I take to-day a wife, and my election
It blesseth him that gives and him that takes:
wit-crackers cannot flout me out of my humour. Dost
Not to-night, good Iago: I have very poor and
Opens the letter, and reads
These gloves the count sent me; they are an
Ay, sweet Rosalind.
Hautboys. Enter KING HENRY VIII and others, as  masquers, habited like shepherds, ushered by the  Chamberlain. They pass directly before CARDINAL WOLSEY, and gracefully salute him
your father's tenant, these fourscore years.
Your private grudge, my Lord of York, will out,
Pursue her; and for this intelligence
They stand aloof
Bring me unto my trial when you will.
Why, you whoreson round man, what's the matter?
Whose messengers are here about my side,
That framed him thus: time, with his fairer hand,
But we will be revenged sufficiently
Art thou gone so? love, lord, ay, husband, friend!
I am not warm yet; let us fight again.
Through my burn'd bosom, nor entreat the north
Blemish'd his gracious dam: this is not, no,
Their very heart of hope.
False face must hide what the false heart doth know.
Who must hang them?
If study's gain be thus and this be so,
You may do so; but let it be so hasted that supper
Ta'en off by poison.
Thersites!
I'll use that tongue I have: if wit flow from't
Destruction straight shall dog them at the heels.
This is the latest parle we will admit;
Ceremony was but devised at first
I will chop her into messes: cuckold me!
Until her husband and my lord's return:
multitude? The name of Henry the Fifth hales them
And pluck'd two crutches from my feeble limbs,
To the pot, I warrant him.
sing, certainly.
She would mock me into air; O, she would laugh me
First let my words stab him, as he hath me.
The sly slow hours shall not determinate
I will be even with thee, doubt it not.
And yet I know not: thou didst hate her deadly,
And his succession granted Rome a tribute,
I pray you, deliver him this petition;
Crier Hobgoblin, make the fairy oyes.
I am content that he shall take the odds
He's fat, and scant of breath.
It beats as it would fall in twenty pieces.
men are April when they woo, December when they wed:
My Ariel, chick,
Though doubts did ever sleep.
We will have, if this fadge not, an antique. I
Unpleasing to a married ear!
Are deeply indebted for this piece of pains:
whipped for holding my peace. I had rather be any
A piece of ordnance 'gainst it I have placed;
Here is his cave.
woman after this downright way of creation: is it
deserve more; a punishment too.
Expedient manage must be made, my liege,
Tremble at patience. You, my lord, best know,
We must needs dine together. Sir, your jewel
Bardolph's nose, and a' said it was a black soul
At Priam's royal table do I sit;
circumstance: that which you hear you'll swear you
I rather think
And with thy blessings steel my lance's point,
O, well said, Lucius!
man, I think, that shall set them in present action.
Taking the measure of an unmade grave.
More should I question thee, and more I must,
your messenger came, in loving visitation was with
And I, poor monster, fond as much on him;
in his judgment that makes it.
So triumph thieves upon their conquer'd booty;
Then, when you come to Pluto's region,
Doubtless he would have made a noble knight;
Shall I say to Caesar
[To Lords without]  Let none disturb us.--Why should
what's the matter?
Me, wretch more worth your vengeance. But, alack,
The bishop will be overborne by thee:
Sir John Norbery, Sir Robert Waterton and Francis Quoint,
together at the latter day and cry all 'We died at
Why should I not now have the like success?
'Tis true:--nay, keep the ring--'tis true: I am sure
And kings have been your fellows.
More than prince of cats, I can tell you. O, he is
given me this morning; but I defy all angels, in
particulars of my life.
Who, queasy with his insolence
It weeps, it bleeds; and each new day a gash
But even for want of that for which I am richer,
All leave us else; but let your cares o'erlook
Our valour is to chase what flies; our cage
With heigh! the doxy over the dale,
I have more care to stay than will to go:
Your husband, he is gone to save far off,
Would we had all such wives, that the men might go
What sights, my lord?
Of Charles his father.
Thine, as he vowed to thee in thine ear,
What plume of feathers is he that indited this letter?
Out of hope of all, but my share of the feast.
But, now you have it, take it.
Not so sick, my lord,
SCENE III. Bosworth Field.
Page's wife acquainted each other how they love me?
O God! they did me too much injury
gives your Hollander a vomit, ere the next pottle
Welcome, ye warlike Goths; welcome, Lucius;
I am affianced this man's wife as strongly
To take the safest occasion by the front
You might have heard it else proclaim'd about.
Your state of fortune and your due of birth,
Upon thy wicked dam, come forth!
Of this was Tamora delivered;
Good my lord, tell it.
What a pair of spectacles is here!
And neither man nor master would take aught
soft, soft!
me ass: I beseech you, let it be remembered in his
Sir John hangs with me, and thou knowest he is no
As thou affect'st.
crown for a pitiful bald crown!
You sleeping safe, they bring to you unrest;
There, take thy hire; and all the fiends of hell
Cuts off more circumstance: they are at hand,
Otherwhiles the famish'd English, like pale ghosts,
All this I see; and I see that the fashion wears
The truth appears so naked on my side
thing to you, wherein I must very much lay open mine
They sit
Descry a sail.
And let us once again assail your ears,
Shall I not live to be avenged on her?
But cannot be true servant to my master,
Even like an o'ergrown lion in a cave,
A soldier and his horse.
This is most strange,
I speak no treason.
knew of their going to bed, and of other motions,
To suffer with him. Good love, call him back.
Exit
Why, sir, for my part I say the gentleman had drunk
In reason nothing.
O blessed breeding sun, draw from the earth
In action all of precept, he did show me
This enemy town. I'll enter: if he slay me,
That death's unnatural that kills for loving.
education: you have trained me like a peasant,
unprovide my mind again: this night, Iago.
The rebels have assay'd to win the Tower.
One, certes, that promises no element
Yet fortune cannot recompense me better
From the casque to the cushion, but commanding peace
'Tis no such matter. Then you do not love me?
How do you, sir? Stand you not so amazed:
Than thou of them. Come all to ruin; let
Pleasure and action make the hours seem short.
Truly, sir, all that I live by is with the awl: I
Requires to live in Egypt: which not granted,
Nay, but hear you, goodman delver,--
To thee and thine hereditary ever
What, standest thou still, and hearest such a
Marry, but you shall have; and here's my hand.
Of broached mischief to the unborn times?
Thus men may grow wiser every day: it is the first
When triumph is become an alehouse guest?
Nor construe any further my neglect,
Because that she as her attendant hath
Or in the incestuous pleasure of his bed;
And he may well in fretting spend his gall,
With the best blood that I can meet withal
May be it is the period of your duty:
thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras ere I will
'tis a subject for a sovereign to reason on, and for
Throwing down a glove
And kiss me, Kate, we will be married o'Sunday.
And with this hateful liquor temper it;
weather continuing, this mystery remained
Exeunt CYMBELINE and Lords
Why, his masculine whore. Now, the rotten diseases
occupation; have at it with you.
And Silvia is myself: banish'd from her
bound for England; if your name be Horatio, as I am
Is a' not? it does a man's heart good. Look you
Must I be his last refuge! His friends, like
There are but sixteen hundred mercenaries;
Acknowledge then the king, and let me in.
I do constantly believe you. The time is come even
And in conclusion dumbly have broke off,
Ere yet the fight be done, pack up: down with them!
My revenge properly, my remission lies
SCENE IV. The same.
Adversity's sweet milk, philosophy,
Thou hast not loved.
Here is the will, and under Caesar's seal.
Than one condemn'd by the king's own mouth, thereon
My elder brother, the Lord Aubrey Vere,
Farewell!
So are they all; for every grise of fortune
At which, like unback'd colts, they prick'd
Here is thy fee; arrest him, officer,
Than young Alcides, when he did redeem
Have I not in a pitched battle heard
revenue for ever, and live the beloved of your
fellows are these that come after?
What if he had said 'widower AEneas' too? Good Lord,
Why tender juvenal? why tender juvenal?
breakfast to the wolf: if thou wert the wolf, thy
Hark, hark! one knocks: Portia, go in awhile;
go to thy fellows; bid them cover the table, serve
I fly thee, for I would not injure thee.
He's a good drum, my lord, but a naughty orator.
home: he has more cause to be proud. Where is he wounded?
Now, by my sceptre and my soul to boot,
Forsooth, a blind man at Saint Alban's shrine,
My husband lost his life to get the crown;
Old I do wax; and from my weary limbs
enough. It hath struck ten o'clock.
And now am I, unhappy messenger,
Enter ANTONIO
Nay, conceive me, conceive me, sweet coz: what I do
thought any such matter: God is my witness, I am
O mistress, villany hath made mocks with love,
combinate husband, this well-seeming Angelo.
He's poor in no one fault, but stored with all.
When miracles have by the greatest been denied.
And wrath o'erwhelm'd my pity: I request you
Gentlewoman, good day! I pray you, be my mean
I drink to the general joy o' the whole table,
Did your brother tell you how I counterfeited to
With the dear love I bear to fair Anne Page;
Though more to know could not be more to trust,
I should not urge it half so faithfully.
from the purpose of playing, whose end, both at the
Do him that kindness, and take leave of him.
Exit, guarded
For what they have been: 'tis a cruelty
Whom after under the confession's seal
And yet my sky shall not want.
Show me thy thought.
In, boy; go first. You houseless poverty,--
Come on; there is sixpence for you: let's have a song.
Fain would I dwell on form, fain, fain deny
Where was his son when they did take his eyes?
And such a one as he, who puts his 'shall,'
My worthy lord, if ever Tamora
Enter LUCILIUS, with three Strangers
Pisa renowned for grave citizens.
Exit First Servant
John Duke of Bourbon, and Lord Bouciqualt:
Say as he says, or we shall never go.
Should learn, being taught, forbearance.
That thought to fill his grave in quiet, yea,
How goes the night, boy?
Who may, in the ambush of my name, strike home,
To undergo with me an enterprise
questions.
If the first hour I shrink and run away.
And therefore, finding barren practisers,
Saying, he'll lade it dry to have his way:
house; and what they made there, I know not. Well,
guard:--first, I must tell thee this--Desdemona is
What the devil should move me to undertake the
Vouchsafe, at our request, to stand aside,
Old as I am, to queen it: but, I pray you,
The dove pursues the griffin; the mild hind
Whereto my finger, like a dial's point,
With barefaced power sweep him from my sight
HOLOFERNES retires
Ay, my continent of beauty.
Our setting down before 't.
The cardinal's malice and his potency
Helen of Greece was fairer far than thou,
God make incision in thee! thou art raw.
Not shall we need his help these fourteen days.
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO, MOTH, and COSTARD
eye,--by this light, but for her eye, I would not
That tears shall drown the wind. I have no spur
That young Prince Edward marries Warwick's daughter.
And makes me poor indeed.
And jewels, two stones, two rich and precious stones,
To raise a present sum: therefore go forth;
As recompense of our dear services
Whom you have banish'd, does exceed you all.
Re-enter one with the heads
I learned it in England, where, indeed, they are
Longer than swiftest expedition
I prithee, tell me, doth he keep his bed?
Crack thy frail case! Apace, Eros, apace.
I am a gentleman.
Indeed, madam?
And as he is, to witness this is true.
And I serve the fairy queen,
Flat treason 'gainst the kingly state of youth.
It is not night when I do see your face,
Sir, sir,--
Hapless AEgeon, whom the fates have mark'd
That I, unworthy body as I am,
That did oppose my will: better Macbeth
Sham it be put to that?
Exeunt MARIA and Attendants
Why do you wring your hands, and beat your breast,
And then to speak.
You must, if you stay here; for here is the place
And in this kind hath our Cleon
And may our oaths well kept and prosperous be!
Well, this is the forest of Arden.
This Ipswich fellow's insolence; or proclaim
virtue out of our hearts by the head and shoulders
[Aside]  Doctors doubt that: if Anne Page be my
in his sides? is there yet another dotes upon
As now it coldly stands, when first I woo'd her!
Is cramm'd with arrogancy, spleen, and pride.
Good worts! good cabbage. Slender, I broke your
to entreat me to 't.
Which shall be needful for your entertainment.
Where's the fool now?
Is counted lost for ever, Perdita,
And, in good time, here the lieutenant comes.
But Tuesday night last gone in's garden-house
Achievements, plots, orders, preventions,
Grant us your loves.
Delay. Here are the angels that you sent for to
Whose vows are, that no bed-right shall be paid
that's all one. 'By the Lord, fool, I am not mad.'
Hideth my heart. So, let me hear you speak.
In killing creatures vile, as cats and dogs,
That long to move.
Exit TITANIA with her train
Sirrah, is this letter true?
is the moral of it, that she is turning, and
Signior Benedick?
'Fear not, Macbeth; no man that's born of woman
this advantage, first, that your stay with him may
I will in, to be revenged for this villany.
They shall go forward, Kate, at thy command.
Exeunt SALANIO, SALARINO, and Servant
Which, well thou know'st, is cross, and full of sin.
For that our kingdom's earth should not be soil'd
An't please your grace, the two great cardinals
to the king's exchequer.
Accompanied but with a barbarous Moor,
her, to satisfy my remembrance the more strongly.
You see how simple and how fond I am.
Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts,
Not yet.
This, this All-Souls' day to my fearful soul
man as Orlando?
Stand close: this is the same Athenian.
'Aio te, AEacida, Romanos vincere posse.'
O, burn her, burn her! hanging is too good.
Nine Worthies.
What is the course and drift of your compact?
Sir, for a quart d'ecu he will sell the fee-simple
Exit
Perchance she weeps because they kill'd her husband;
To rid the realm of this pernicious blot?
Enter BARDOLPH
Was there ever any man thus beaten out of season,
O Henry, let me plead for gentle Suffolk!
If in Naples
Seven year and a half, sir.
Or this imperious man will work us all
And bring some covering for this naked soul,
Unguided and unfriended, often prove
Come, let me wipe thy face.
Her stature to an inch; as wand-like straight;
How bloodily the sun begins to peer
Here, through this grate, I count each one
And live upon the vapour of a dungeon,
Not met us on the way.
Thou saw'st them, when I had prosperity.
Against a change; woe is forerun with woe.
Aloft the flood, and can give audience
Vain Thurio, whom my very soul abhors.
This lanthorn doth the horned moon present;--
Stew'd in his haste, half breathless, panting forth
knows me not: I will try confusions with him.
To me, my father?
He that meets Hector issues from our choice
So ridest thou triumphing in my woe.
Which I have pass'd upon her; she is banish'd.
If she be in her chamber or your house,
Well, sir, what answer made the belly?
The king is now in progress towards Saint Alban's,
Cannot contain their urine: for affection,
No. madam, he does nothing but smile: your
That have preserved her welfare in my blood;
Go to, sir: tell me, do you know Madam Silvia?
Because so well I love Lucentio.
Tell her, Emilia.
Of knights, esquires, and gallant gentlemen,
This Charmian lived but now; she stood and spake:
To the bottom of the worst. Let Helen go:
Might equal yours, if both were justly weigh'd.
Your betters have endured me say my mind,
Nay, then, thou mock'st me. Thou shalt buy this dear,
Of what quality was your love, then?
Yonder, sure, they are coming: let us now stay and see it.
her that's foul and foolish?
bravely marching, it hath served me instead of a
Withal bring word if Hector will to-morrow
Gentle kinsman, go,
And such as to my claim are liable,
And thus still doing, thus he pass'd along.
Young men will do't, if they come to't;
Err in bestowing it.
When to her beauty I commend my vows,
Sir, I foretold you then what would ensue:
Die when you will, a smock shall be your shroud.
The cat, with eyne of burning coal,
That I love her, I feel.
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
wonderful! and yet again wonderful, and after that,
entrails were hairs; le cheval volant, the Pegasus,
What's the business,
Triumphs for nothing and lamenting toys
Offers to kill her
That, in his secret doom, out of my blood
Exeunt
I have done.
therefore he gives them good leave to wander.
Enter MALCOLM and SIWARD
That makes us wretched by the death of thee,
Enter Players
Do all expect that you should rouse yourself,
Yes, forsooth: I wish you joy o' the worm.
SCENE I. The city gate.
I know no personal cause to spurn at him,
Ay, too gentle.
Thy sorrow in my breast. Come, ladies, go,
He is not here.
from his mad humour of love to a living humour of
Speak how I fell. I have done; and God forgive me!
Take your own way.
Think death no hazard in this enterprise.
For yonder walls, that pertly front your town,
And shall these hands, so lately purged of blood,
Although the print be little, the whole matter
And give him light that it was blinded by.
To hold a rival place with one of them,
To empirics, or to dissever so
You have done a brave deed. Ere you go, hear this:--
Rise, Marcus, rise.
And from her jealous arms pluck him perforce.
But let it be: I am quickly ill, and well,
Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
And saved the treacherous labour of your son.
Now his important blood will nought deny
A Clifford! a Clifford! we'll follow the king and Clifford.
Surety secure; but modest doubt is call'd
As well to see the vessel that's come in
It's the wind.
At your sweet pleasure, for the mountain.
The only soil of his fair virtue's gloss,
And that's great marvel, loving a light wench.
There is no end, no limit, measure, bound,
is the next way to give poor jades the bots: this
Truly then I fear you are damned both by father and
Pursue we him on knees; for I have dream'd
Not so, neither:
Look him i' the face.
Self against self: O, preposterous
her;' and where some stretch-mouthed rascal would,
That, were I crown'd the most imperial monarch,
i' the country; for you'll be rotten ere you be half
And meet him, were I tied to run afoot
Thus both are gone with conscience and remorse;
deal in evil: he excels his brother for a coward,
To think it should leave crying and say 'Ay.'
By'r lakin, I can go no further, sir;
Your worship speaks like a most thankful and
age of two and twenty or thereabouts! I am
What makes your admiration?
Who is conductor of his people?
Neither my husband nor the slave return'd,
His secret murders sticking on his hands;
Under the Dauphin.
Nor need'st thou much importune me to that
Re-enter the first Servingman
Flinty mankind; whose eyes do never give
And make us heirs of all eternity.
And therefore lost that title of respect
Go with me to my chamber, and advise me.
Sitting down by her
I fear we should have seen decipher'd there
Your son and daughter found this trespass worth
horse; and she would have me as a beast: not that, I
fetch him hither; go.
Nay, I'll watch you for that; and that's one of the
Lady, vouchsafe to listen what I say.
You came, I think, from France?
That he could gnaw a crust at two hours old
He.
As falcon doth the fowl, is yet a devil
At length broke under me and now has left me,
with his comfort; swallowed his vows whole,
Only, good master, while we do admire
That do distribute it; in the name o' the people
And bay'd about with many enemies;
Enter BIONDELLO
Hold off your hands.
I'ld play incessantly upon these jades,
When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
That which shall break his neck or hazard mine,
Hath yet a kind of medicine in itself,
Come let's in all.
A matter from thee, and a birth indeed
Belike she minds to play the Amazon.
To our gross selves? Good, good my lord, bethink you;
The front of heaven was full of fiery shapes,
Merely our own traitors. And as in the common course
And now forward; for we have put thee in countenance.
And bring away the armour that is there.
Happy be you!
It is ashamed to bear me! Friends, come hither:
And make them keep their caves: since I was man,
I would speak with Clarence, and I came hither on my legs.
Pembroke, look to 't. Farewell, Chatillon.
To blow on whom I please; for so fools have;
And then all this thou seest is but a clod
They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance
Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep;
And wore us out of act. It much repairs me
Thou know'st our reasons urged upon the way;
Till then fair hope must hinder life's decay.
And foul imaginary eyes of blood
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
is he inconstant, sir, in his favours?
Death, in guerdon of her wrongs,
The poisonous damp of night disponge upon me,
No, no.
Nay, come, sit down; then on.
as it hath power, but as it is suffered. Come to
That power I have, discharge; and let them go
For I have bills for money by exchange
Foix, Lestrale, Bouciqualt, and Charolois;
DON
Come, gentlemen, ye shall go my way, which
Go to the rude ribs of that ancient castle;
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
Upon the corner of the moon
But no more sights!--Where are these gentlemen?
It is reported, mighty sovereign,
Hast strangely stood the test here, afore Heaven,
The which the gods protect thee from!--may
well knock'd at first, Then had not Grumio come by the worst.
To rob me of so rich a bottom here.
Let dying Mortimer here rest himself.
own country, be out of love with your nativity and
The times that brought them in; so shall I do
And strip myself to death, as to a bed
What cannot be, slight work.
Will you go with me? We'll mend our dinner here?
And topping all others in boasting.
That speaks he knows not what?
What woman-post is this? hath she no husband
he says he has a stratagem for't: when your
We'll ne'er come there again.'
I beseech your grace to pardon me, and withal
the heavens were so pleased that thou wert but my
The purple sap from her sweet brother's body
The fancy outwork nature: on each side her
A whoreson beetle-headed, flap-ear'd knave!
There were a heart in Egypt.
You are the musty chaff; and you are smelt
will go about with him. Come you hither, sirrah; a
Believe me, I am not; I tell thee true.
We do not come as minding to contest you,
letter to you; I should have given't you to-day
Why, I pray you, is not pig great? the pig, or the
His very hair is of the dissembling colour.
requesting your lordship to supply his instant use
The enemy flying.
But toiling desperately to find it out,--
This hill is far enough. Look, look, Titinius;
SCENE V. Another room in LEONATO'S house.
Except thou wilt except against my love.
Myself your loyal servant, your physician,
But is this Hector?
Be sometime honour'd for his burning throne!
Your napkin is too little:
solemnity, her brother Frederick was wrecked at sea,
Once more, adieu; the rest let sorrow say.
pillage and robbery. Now, if these men have
As sure a card as ever won the set;
To miseries enough; no hope to help you,
To the rest, and 'mongst lords I be thought a fool.
As water is in water.
But Antonio is certainly undone.
Well, Syracusian, say in brief the cause
As now they are, and making practised smiles,
I did not think, sir, to have met you here.
You thief of love! what, have you come by night
doth not the appetite alter? a man loves the meat
How? the best?
And let these have a day appointed them
Alack, sir, you cannot see your way.
Unfit for mine own purposes.
When second husband kisses me in bed.
Even so. Cover their faces.
I was beset with shame and courtesy;
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S Cell.
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Your nobles will not hear you, but are gone
As the most noble corse that ever herald
Would I had never seen her.
Exeunt
But when we saw our sunshine made thy spring,
To come abroad with him at his request.
ACT III
Daring an opposite to every danger:
one sorel.
Then, what it was that next came in her eye,
That same villain, Romeo.
To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps;
Will cause Demetrius to awake.
For I have none: let no man speak again
I have seen two such sights, by sea and by land!
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work;
love-songs in their barks.
O fair Katharine, if you will love me soundly with
The stumbling night did part our weary powers?
And get her leave to part. For not alone
O illegitimate construction! I scorn that with my heels.
And, to deal plainly,
Nod--Ay--why, that's noddy.
Scale of dragon, tooth of wolf,
Spits in the face of heaven, is no bar
Stand you! You have land enough of your own: but
Good my lord, take his offer; go into the house.
Cardinal, I'll be no breaker of the law:
'Tis the cardinal;
And in their barks my thoughts I'll character;
Hoisted sail and made away for Brittany.
Give me mine own again; 'twere no good part
On their abatement: that's not my desire:
DON
Silvius, the time was that I hated thee,
'Come on, you cowards! you were got in fear,
This quarrel would excite? Yet, I protest,
I know you have a gentle, noble temper,
Made it for me, sir! I bespoke it not.
Be patient, lords; and give them leave to speak.
I ought to know of: and, upon my knees,
And, like her true nobility, she has
Now, sir, who's a cuckold now? Master Brook,
Yes, madam.
Profess'd the contrary.
Here, madam.
the pin-buttock, the quatch-buttock, the brawn
For the love o' God, peace!
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
Who finds her, give her burying;
[To IMOGEN]  You are not well: remain here in the cave;
By this time from their fixed beds of lime
And fall thy edgeless sword: despair, and die!
What thou dost know of noble Gloucester's death,
Of things that merchants sold. Therefore be cheer'd;
Come, let's make haste; she'll soon be back again.
give you good rest!'
That thou couldst say 'This hand is Grecian all,
Re-enter PUCK
No, forsooth: he hath but a little wee face, with a
I am compared to twenty thousand fairs.
Bid him demand what pledge will please him best.
A domineering pedant o'er the boy;
Let me ask you one thing:
Seeking out Romeo, that did spit his body
'Tis sin to flatter; 'good' was little better:
There's for thyself, and that's for Tamora.
Exeunt
we must have your doublet and hose plucked over your
My spirit from mine eyes! There is my dagger,
I would to God, my lords, he might be found:
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
Pour in sow's blood, that hath eaten
Oh, poor Clarence!
As Anna to the queen of Carthage was,
Faith, we hear fearful news.
O Pyramus, arise!
withal, who Time trots withal, who Time gallops
Enter HAMLET and HORATIO
Thou, an Egyptian puppet, shalt be shown
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings: I ha't.
And I have heard, Apollodorus carried--
We are resolved, my lord.
Where is Posthumus? What is in thy mind,
More shall they speak; for now I am bent to know,
Please you, madam
But, Titus, I have touched thee to the quick,
Tut, I am strong-framed, he cannot prevail with me,
On his fair worth and single chivalry.
A woman, I dare say without vain-glory,
You speak too bitterly.
Stabs him
'Twas very Cloten.
And, whilst thou lay'st in thy unhallow'd dam,
Good traders in the flesh, set this in your
I am maim'd for ever. Help, ho! murder! murder!
If thou dost love fair Hero, cherish it,
Let me remember thee what thou hast promised,
The thick sighs from him, whiles the jolly Briton--
Alas, the part I had in Woodstock's blood
Alack, too weak the conflict to support!
Heaven keep me from such counsel! 'Tis most true
Before the palace of Antioch
between Saint Denis and Saint George, compound a
She dances featly.
our pikes, ere we become rakes: for the gods know I
The ambitious ocean swell and rage and foam,
A dreadful lay! Address thee instantly.
Where is my father, and my mother, nurse?
Holla, within!
Most wonderful!
But being play'd upon before your time,
My parasite, my soldier, statesman, all:
Do one thing for me that I shall entreat.
You do him injury to scorn his corse.
But is he gracious in the people's eye?
Buried his father; by whose death he's stepp'd
For the table, sir, it shall be served in; for the
Mine ears against your suits are stronger than
So are you, sweet,
no harm: you saw they speak us fair, give us gold:
And prays the Moor be safe; for they were parted
I'd not believe thee. Henceforth guard thee well;
One word, good citizens.
And let him be no kinsman to my liege,
Nay, that's certain:
You've strange serpents there.
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
And the Lord Hastings, who attended him
brought to Leonato's: I will go before and show
He is noble, wise, judicious, and best knows
O' my troth, most sweet jests! most incony
Hector bade ask.
And so, conduct me where, from company,
Upon my smiles. Go, get thee from me, Cromwell;
worthiness.
Away! thou'rt a knave.
mots que vous m'avez appris des a present.
For ever the society of men.
He loved his mother dearly.
O, she that hath a heart of that fine frame
Lords, I will meet him at Saint Edmundsbury:
near me; noble, or not I for an angel; of good
If you did know for whom I gave the ring
And wherefore I am fled; write to the king
Wilt thou go dig a grave to find out war,
Alarums. Enter MACDUFF
'Tis in my head to do my master good:
Hath seal'd thee for herself; for thou hast been
knowing, to a stranger of his quality.
No rest be interposer 'twixt us twain.
Lay't so to his charge:
Fly toward Belmont: come, Antonio.
Exit
Come, both you cogging Greeks; have at you both!
Of what it likes or loathes. Now, for your answer:
Than we bring men to comfort them:
She give it Cassio! no, alas! I found it,
Yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor:
Alack, sir, no; her passions are made of nothing but
How now! what news?
facinerious spirit that will not acknowledge it to be the--
Now, Eros.
I mean, his conversation with Shore's wife,
Then shall we find to-morrow they have only stomachs
Exeunt
Do this, and be a charitable murderer.
Enter Nurse
SCENE II. Ante-chamber to KING HENRY VIII's apartment.
But none of 'em can be found. Stand! who's there?
As fair and as good--a kind of hand-in-hand
If not, the Fates with traitors do contrive.
we'll be all three sworn brothers to France: let it
The interim having weigh'd it, let us speak
Go with me to it and I'll show it you and by the way
ANTIPHOLUS
And then I comes behind.
Had I as many sons as I have hairs,
Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly.
I shall have share in this most happy wreck.
Of stirs abroad, I shall beseech you, sir,
Go bear it to the Centaur, where we host,
Jeweller:	If he will touch the estimate: but, for that--
Baked and impasted with the parching streets,
Peace, peace, and give experience tongue.
Bear thee well in it and leave us alone.
Shylock thy master spoke with me this day,
They of those marches, gracious sovereign,
Mistress?
And vent it for a mockery? Here is one:
Must in your child be thought on. If neglection
Come, let us take a muster speedily:
Enter two other Soldiers
Hath wisdom's warrant and the help of school
Old men forget: yet all shall be forgot,
[Aside]          O, 'tis too true!
Exit
Thaw and resolve itself into a dew!
A bare-ribb'd death, whose office is this day
Shall not make poor my greatness, nor my power
And therefore, like herself, wise, fair and true,
Which fate and metaphysical aid doth seem
Exeunt
Thou wouldst have mercy on me.
Were tried by every tongue, every eye saw 'em,
How more unfortunate than all living women
[Within]  Let me go in to see the generals;
sister company: the revenges we are bound to take
And left me to a bootless inquisition,
The fiery orbs above and the twinn'd stones
Enter a Second Servant
The ample proposition that hope makes
For this world frowns, and Edward's sun is clouded.
O friar, the damned use that word in hell;
For queen, a very caitiff crown'd with care;
An idiot holds his bauble for a god
We come to be informed by yourselves
As puts me from my faith. I tell you what;
And so doth yours; your fault was not your folly:
be followed: after them, and take a more dilated farewell.
Now have at him!
To mend it, or be rid on't.
and debile minister, great power, great
Alas! he is betray'd and I undone.
They swirl asunder and dismember me.
O, these are barren tasks, too hard to keep,
here acquired for him shall at home be encountered
Exit EDGAR
in the army of any sort.
Free from these slanders and this open shame!
eight and nine is the hour, Master Brook.
Where be my horses? speak well of them, varletto.
Or with an outstretch'd throat I'll tell the world aloud
medicines to make me love him, I'll be hanged; it
Then will two at once woo one;
It rain'd down fortune showering on your head;
Thou naughty gaoler, that thou art so fond
Like to the old Vice,
defeated the law and outrun native punishment,
open. He was torn to pieces with a bear: this
My lord, I am a man whom fortune hath cruelly
palm-tree. I was never so be-rhymed since
Alas, alas!
We make him lord of. Call the Lady Constance;
Well, do not swear: although I joy in thee,
But swords I smile at, weapons laugh to scorn,
friend; his backward voice is to utter foul speeches
Master, if you do, expect spoon-meat; or bespeak a
And bid him keep it better than the other.
standing-tuck,--
Behoves it us to labour for the realm.
Push! did you see my cap?
Tell me, was he arrested on a band?
Until I send for thee.
Speak your griefs softly: I do know you well.
No king of England, if not king of France.
Presumes to reach, all thy whole heap must die.
he cannot lie with his neighbour's wife, but it
Is Bushy, Green, and the Earl of Wiltshire dead?
And I have horse will follow where the game
So sweet a kiss the golden sun gives not
How! is this true?
Our masquing mates by this time for us stay.
The enemy's in view; draw up your powers.
Gracious Olivia,--
What cannot be preserved when fortune takes
There is my gage, Aumerle, in gage to thine:
furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
But if it be a sin to covet honour,
I am too blunt and saucy: here's my knee:
I will seek them out.
Of him that hears it, never in the tongue
To still my beating mind.
Enjoy the kingdom after my decease.
She cannot be so much without true judgment--
And make them blind with tributary tears:
Hortensio, to what end are all these words?
But in this extant moment, faith and troth,
Art thou not sorry for these heinous deeds?
thrust in the mouth with a spear, and 'tis not whole
Traitors have never other company.
Are not within the leaf of pity writ,
ACT II
Free from gross passion or of mirth or anger,
Sit, sir, I will recount it to you:
Usurp the just proportion of my sorrow?
Good George, be not angry: I knew of your purpose;
My swift command, though I with death and with
darkness. When thou rannest up Gadshill in the
Hear'st thou, Mars?
And these and all are all amiss employ'd.
What is the body when the head is off?
Exeunt Attendants with THYREUS
Enter EDGAR
did not hate him deadly, she would love him dearly:
Enter MISTRESS PAGE, with a letter
Of rich and exquisite form; their values great;
And in part him: ' do you mark this, Reynaldo?
Who was sole heir to the usurper Capet,
We are beholding to you, good Andronicus.
For one poor grain or two, to leave unburnt,
see if I can eat grass, or pick a sallet another
That here were well begun and well begot:
Exeunt
Cannot impugn you as you do proceed.
None better than to let him fetch off his drum,
And stop this gap of breath with fulsome dust
encounter any such, apprehend him, an thou dost me love.
Crystal is muddy. O, how ripe in show
Lessen'd herself, and in the beams o' the sun
What of him? he is
Transform me then, and to your power I'll yield.
It was my instant death. By accident,
We follow'd then our lord, our lawful king:
The deep of night is crept upon our talk,
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmark:
Which as they kiss consume: the sweetest honey
Who, without those means thou talkest of, didst thou
Well, jest on, brothers: I can tell you both
'twill be his bane; he cannot bear it.
I slept the next night well, was free and merry;
And shining morning face, creeping like snail
And, with her fellow maids is now upon
Or else the devil will make a grandsire of you:
It was a mark of wonder.
opinion by this worn out.
Or else our spell is marr'd.
always count you my deer.
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus with a rope's-end
Look like the time; bear welcome in your eye,
Lest it should ravel and be good to none,
To answer 'I'll not wed; I cannot love,
That any of these bolder vices wanted
I am not bound to please thee with my answers.
There, at your meet'st advantage of the time,
What can you vouch against him, Signior Lucio?
well that prays for peace.
My gracious lords, to add to your laments,
From our debate, from our dissension;
O Lord, sir, the parties themselves, the actors,
By telling truth: tell truth and shame the devil.
Montez A cheval! My horse! varlet! laquais! ha!
Why, shall we turn to men?
Exeunt the followers of BASSIANUS
Enter MISTRESS PAGE
Drown the lamenting fool in sea-salt tears.
This gentleman of mine hath served me long:
Our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall? Speak.
Reads
And so, from hour to hour, we ripe and ripe,
Displant a town, reverse a prince's doom,
Made him my book wherein my soul recorded
Lo, yonder, and Titinius mourning it.
ANTIPHOLUS
To do this deed will hate you for the deed.
love me, hold not off.
and the garland too; for the garland he might have
tailors, and breed ballad-makers.
DON
My nephew's trespass may be well forgot;
Is with a mighty power landed at Milford,
[Aside]  If I find him comforting the king, it will
He for his father's sake so loves the prince,
Alisander the conqueror! You will be scraped out of
Nor to her bed no homage do I owe
Re-enter CRESSIDA
Let it be seen to-morrow in the battle
[Aside]  I am glad thou hast set thy mercy and
And like me to the peasant boys of France,
Not so; but it hath been the longest night
Sir, he answered me in the roundest manner, he would
He, he 'tis he.
I cannot conceive you.
nothing doubt you have store of thieves;
I pray thee lend me thy lantern, to see my gelding
more. Adieu, trusty Pompey. 'Bless you, friar.
Alas, sir, I am but a poor petitioner of our whole township.
Why, gentlemen, you do me double wrong,
When she did suckle Hector, look'd not lovelier
case, William?
Why appear you with this ridiculous boldness before my lady?
A goodly apple rotten at the heart:
What I can urge against him. Although it seems,
Enter CELIA, with a writing
My gracious liege, when that my father lived,
What have we here?
Fie, fie!
His second marriage shall be publish'd, and
Nay, ask me if I can refrain from love;
Till candles and starlight and moonshine be out.
What will whole months of tears thy father's eyes?
For why, the senseless brands will sympathize
So many of his shadows thou hast met
'Gainst thee, fell Clifford, and thee, false
If he outlive the envy of this day,
As presence did present them; him in eye,
Exeunt LUCILIUS and Old Athenian
If we be not, show us the hand of God
They shall abound as formerly.
Who offered him the crown?
Look with a gentle eye upon this wretch!
we be married.
I was, and held me glad of such a doom.
To tyrannous hate! Swell, bosom, with thy fraught,
Came short of composition, but in chief
The help of heaven we count the act of men.
He will not fight with me, Domitius.
To desperate ventures and assured destruction.
me she did affect me: and I have heard herself come
Good morrow, father.
Nor lead me, like a firebrand, in the dark
From eaves of reeds. Your charm so strongly works 'em
And I will turn thy falsehood to thy heart,
Madam?
As you would beg, were you in my distress
If he be leaden, icy-cold, unwilling,
[Aside]  It is the poison'd cup: it is too late.
Ere further leisure yield them further means
Or be inferior to the proudest peer.
Go down upon him, you have power enough,
And so supplant you for ingratitude,
Prejudicates the business and would seem
Exeunt severally
Lucentio! O, he hath murdered his master! Lay hold
your oration; and let him deliver the pigeons to
To be suspected of more tenderness
more was this knight swearing by his honour, for he
What is his strength by land?
Hate him perniciously, and, o' my conscience,
Lights that do mislead the morn:
smiles not: I fear he will prove the weeping
That we are those which chased you from the field
But that is lost for being Richard's friend,
The name of hardiness and policy.
excellent sweet lady; and, out of all suspicion,
And let ourselves again but understand,
Are made thy chief afflictions. Alas, kind lord!
Under your hands and seals: therefore, go on:
for the defence of a town, our general is excellent.
Or seek for rule, supremacy and sway,
France friend with England, what becomes of me?
SCENE VIII. Under the walls of Alexandria.
Master of this design, did give us, with
But, in the midst of this bright-shining day,
This is fairy gold, boy, and 'twill prove so: up
'Twere well for Kate and better for myself.
But when they would seem soldiers, they have galls,
Shoots buck and doe:
Nay, come, tell Iras hers.
Prison, my lord!
Now I am alone.
Above a better gone, so must thy grave
Fie, fie, how wayward is this foolish love
A third more opulent than your sisters? Speak.
And salt too little which may season give
Strong reasons make strong actions: let us go:
The mutiny he there hastes t' oppress;
'Item: She brews good ale.'
I cannot drink too much of Brutus' love.
But, Othello, speak:
What services canst thou do?
far, would have made nature immortal, and death
Thou mayst befriend me so much as to think
I shall be well content with any choice
In brief, to set the needless process by,
Abraham and Mistress Anne Page.
Swoons
Or, Hubert, if you will, cut out my tongue,
O, me!
I'll peck you o'er the pales else.
thee profitably.
'Faith, once or twice she heaved the name of 'father'
As dear be to thee as thy father was.
In differences so mighty. If she be
'Tis most like he will.
not Anne Page, I shall turn your head out of my
You amaze me, ladies: I would have told you of good
'But a drum'! is't 'but a drum'? A drum so lost!
Never came trouble to my house in the likeness of
A good old commander and a most kind gentleman: I
old a head. I leave him to your gracious
You dare easier be friends with me than fight with mine enemy.
Avaunt! and quit my sight! let the earth hide thee!
knowest her not?
Knights of the garter were of noble birth,
Give me the glass, and therein will I read.
Both what by sea and land I can be able
are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
A pretty tale: it may be you have heard it;
Fellow, commend my service to her beauty;
What means he now? Go ask him whither he goes.
name? Faith, here's an equivocator, that could
Or I'll be buried in the king's highway,
No, by my troth, not long; for we cannot lodge and
Is the king's ship; in the deep nook, where once
So full of ugly sights, of ghastly dreams,
--Command silence.
As one come not within another's way.
Never name to us; you have half our power:
Yourself shall go between 's: the mean time, lady,
himself stuck not to call us the many-headed multitude.
That were the opposites of this day's strife:
Why, then, how stands the matter with them?
ANTIPHOLUS
ACT II
For they are actions that a man might play:
so near with their lips that their breaths embraced
Until this day, to scour it in the dust.
Hector, in view of Trojans and of Greeks,
To-morrow, soldier,
taken with Jaquenetta, and Jaquenetta is a true
and the rams together and to offer to get your
and leave us.
Enter DUKE ORSINO, CURIO, and Attendants
A motley fool; a miserable world!
And told me that by water I should die:
In a poor isle and all of us ourselves
I will lead forth my soldiers to the plain,
So may he rest; his faults lie gently on him!
I think so too. But you shall find, the band that
it to that end: though soft-conscienced men can be
Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric;
O, let me stay, befall what may befall!
Remember since you owed no more to time
When she had fitted you with her craft, to work
all the country is laid for me; but now am I so
But Macbeth is.
above. Now, my masters, for a true face and good
[Aside]  I feel remorse in myself with his words;
I'll be thy master: walk with me; speak freely.
I'll to the king;
Pierce into that; but I can see his pride
Thou shalt be whipp'd with wire, and stew'd in brine,
Here were a fairy.
If ever you have look'd on better days,
Ghosts
You are too hard for me.
Enter GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, SOMERSET, and MONTAGUE
Speak softly, or the loss of those great towns
And she alone were cold: whereat I, wretch,
I thank you for this profit; and from hence
were set at eight i' the morning.
Will be deceived; for, gentle hearers, know,
I do wander everywhere,
A good knave, i' faith, and well fed.
To make you garlands of, and my sweet friend,
'Tis true, fair daughter; and this blessed day
No barricado for a belly; know't;
I'll tell you true. I'll call to you.
Princes in this should live like gods above,
But, fearing since how it might work, hath sent
Thine honour from thy suffering; that not know'st
She curtsies to KING HENRY VIII, and offers to depart
Against the Duke of Clarence, but have been
to corrupt a saint. Thou hast done much harm upon
Divide your happy England into four;
And many an error by the same example
Our courtiers say all's savage but at court:
Bear witness, all that have not hearts of iron,
Read it.
Exeunt
Brutus, my lord!
barrow of butcher's offal, and to be thrown in the
Thy arm may do thee justice: here is mine.
Who did hoot him out o' the city.
That I were couching with the doctor's clerk.
mind. Give her no token but stones; for she's as
I have forgiven and forgotten all;
Thus once again says Nestor from the Greeks:
Be known when 'tis brought forth.
Launce, away, away, aboard! thy master is shipped
To see the strange impatience of the heavens:
Fit I meet them.
A rotten carcass of a boat, not rigg'd,
I fear you have done yourself some wrong: a word.
by his oaths, which first possessed them, partly by
Where Phoebus' fire scarce thaws the icicles,
Undone, and forfeited to cares for ever!
Her father means she shall be all in white,
And if their wisdoms be misled in this,
Piercing a hogshead! a good lustre of conceit in a
Before a friend of this description
Thy praises in his kingdom's great defence,
Thy sin's not accidental, but a trade.
The source of all erection. There's more gold:
and patient churchman. You must go with me, master doctor.
His guilt should be but idly posted over,
The Duke of Buckingham's surveyor, ha?
Exit BIANCA
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
And, with wild looks, bid me devise some mean
And have our bodies slaughtered by thy foes.
To be acknowledged, madam, is o'erpaid.
Until my husband bid me.
In sadness, cousin, I do love a woman.
Her father and her country and her friends,
Go to Ventidius.
The Duke of Bedford had a prisoner
Enter DUKE
For I am sorry that with reverence
And what ensues in this fell storm
Can you remember any of the principal evils that he
Labienus--
Yes, sir, I shall.
Gentlemen, go, muster up your men,
He gave you all the duties of a man;
From what we fear, yet know not what we fear,
A match, sir. There's in all two worthy voices
I promise you, my soul is very jocund
I thank thee, good Sir John, with all my heart.
enrich the hand
Will now deny to dance? she that makes dainty,
PROLOGUE
By my faith, he is very swift and sententious.
But small to greater matters must give way.
Come, your hand;
About a prophecy, which says that 'G'
I see no more in you than in the ordinary
Speak to them, noble Timon.
To-morrow shall you bear our full intent
But didst thou hear without wondering how thy name
Approach, ho! All's not well: Caesar's beguiled.
Talk not of dying: I am out of fear
Come pat betwixt too early and too late
And she shall be my love, or else my queen.--
true: my name is Nym and Falstaff loves your wife.
Signior Petruchio, will you go with us,
himself on the forehead, crying, 'Peer out, peer
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
And made defeat of her virginity,--
fall to you upon this, more than thanks and good
And swear I lost the ring defending it.
Harry le Roy.
Here, at thy hand: be bold, and take thy stand.
mail, sir: O, sir, plantain, a plain plantain! no
Is fled to heaven; and England now is left
And great Troy shrieking.
That plotted thus our glory's overthrow?
Evils enow to darken all his goodness:
A most acute juvenal; voluble and free of grace!
No, sooth, sir: my determinate voyage is mere
That, as I am a Christian faithful man,
Women will all turn monsters.
Which love to all, of which thyself art one,
From thy great fall. Come, fellow, be thou honest:
O you beast!
losing the flood, lose thy voyage, and, in losing
Richard, thy wife, that wretched Anne thy wife,
modest assurance if you be the lady of the house,
let that appear when there is no need of such
ANDREW AGUECHEEK.
Sir, his chests and treasure
Tell him from me, as he will win my love,
It warm'd thy father's heart with proud desire
Please you, I'll meet with you upon the mart
Than Venus, or those pamper'd animals
give him gold; and though authority be a stubborn
'Little' again! nothing but 'low' and 'little'!
Enter the KING HENRY VIII and DOCTOR BUTTS at a window above
Peter! what more?
This warlike volley.
And leave the burthen of it all on thee.
Whom should he follow but his natural king?
Re-enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, with GARDINER
Do shameful execution on herself.
Which is the wiser here? Justice or Iniquity? Is
In every point twice done and then done double
Why, thou must be thyself.
Confine! I'll confine myself no finer than I am:
Adonis painted by a running brook,
genders? Thou art as foolish Christian creatures as
I see thy grieved heart: thy sad aspect
Should chance--
I shall not find myself so apt to die:
But when they should endure the bloody spur,
Exeunt
[Aside]  Nor more willingly leaves winter; such
BISHOP
I bring thee tidings of the prince's doom.
And take her hearing prisoner with the force
Stand aye accursed in the calendar!
Exit Servant
By east, west, north, and south, I spread my
Exit CASSIUS, with some of the Citizens. BRUTUS goes into the pulpit
And hold no longer out.
Madam, the care I have had to even your content, I
Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
No, by no means.
The more of you 'twas felt, the more it shaped
So please you, let me now be left alone,
The whole realm, by your teaching and your chaplains,
Weke, weke! so cries a pig prepared to the spit.
DUMB SHOW.
Dies
welcome to Elsinore.
He is ready at the door: he comes, my lord.
of Cyprus gallants that would fain have a measure to
Health and all happiness to my lord the king!
'Tis pity he is not honest: yond's that same knave
If you, born in these latter times,
Men do their broken weapons rather use
Clip dead men's graves and from their misty jaws
I must not think there are
Think not I love him, though I ask for him:
To make my master out of love with thee!
Your griefs! for what? wrong not your prince you love.
Straight will I bring you to the loathsome pit
But you gave leave to my unwilling tongue
For never henceforth shall I joy again,
And who is England's king but great York's heir?
As seek to quench the fire of love with words.
Descended into perjury, to love me.
And made between's by vows. Thou hast found mine;
There sleeps Titania sometime of the night,
He would have given it you; but I, being in the way,
Yea, twice the sum: if that will not suffice,
That Anne my wife is sick and like to die:
And ever three parts coward, I do not know
I say, sir, I will detest myself also, as well as
Ay, traitor, Marcius!
So shall I clothe me in a forced content,
freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end his miseries,
This honest man, wait like a lousy footboy
Lay me stark naked, and let the water-flies
Come to our pavilion: Boyet is disposed.
Than by the negligent.
Re-enter CASSIO; with him MONTANO and Gentlemen; servants following with wine
There was a man--
To make confession and to be absolved.
their swords to pawn. Follow me, lads of peace;
coward on instinct. I shall think the better of
Nay, do not think I flatter;
To save your life in this extremity,
I that do bring the news made not the match.
Enter ROMEO
Ay, madam, so you stumble not unheedfully.
So is theirs and ours.
Give first admittance to the ambassadors;
Which thou heard'st cry, which thou saw'st sink. Sit down;
Thou great, and wise, to hear Ulysses speak.
but for the stuffing,--well, we are all mortal.
A traveller! By my faith, you have great reason to
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Niece, will you look to those things I told you of?
her I will execute in the clothes that she so
Therefore give out you are of Epidamnum,
O, but I love his lady too too much,
Pillicock sat on Pillicock-hill:
You have made
Therefore know thou, for this I entertain thee.
ACT V
He that is yours, sweet lady.
To taunt and scorn you thus opprobriously?
Of England's chair, where he is falsely set;
Out of my sight!
Which men are best inclined.
Exit Tailor
Enter Servant
He is very near by this: he was not three leagues off
As zephyrs blowing below the violet,
Which now they hold by force and not by right;
Master, be wise: an if you give it her,
For 'twas your heaven she should be advanced:
I had rather have my wounds to heal again
Curse, miscreant, when thou comest to the stake.
Of impious stubbornness; 'tis unmanly grief;
which is much in a bare Christian.
grant? and will you persever to enjoy her?
Transported shall be at high festivals
My gracious uncle, let me know my fault:
BISHOP
you have reason, be brief: 'tis not that time of
For, had the passions of thy heart burst out,
They laughed not so much at the hair as at his pretty answer.
Go, nurse, go with her: we'll to church to-morrow.
Of Marcius?
Reads
Repeat your will and take it.
That I am forced to lay my reverence by
To my determined time thou gavest new date.
That beauty am I bless'd with which you see.
As traitors do.
But what linsey-woolsey hast thou to speak to us again?
I do presume, sir, that you are not fallen
I'll pay it presently with all my heart.
He hath hereto prized them at.
jades' tricks; which are their own right by the law of nature.
Sir boy, now let me see your archery;
And therefore bind them, gentle Publius.
Your dinner, and the generous islanders
be-rhyme her; Dido a dowdy; Cleopatra a gipsy;
If one could match you: the scrimers of their nation,
For love of you, not hate unto my friend,
They burn in indignation. I repent:
For that I knew it the most general way--
Then how or which way should they first break in?
Trimm'd like a younker prancing to his love!
He's bound unto Octavia.
And thou and Romeo press one heavy bier!
Is not here passable.
His company must do his minions grace,
Destroying them for wealth.
Exeunt FERDINAND, Lords, and Blackamoors
And shall become you well, to entreat your captain
PROLOGUE
I will feed fat the ancient grudge I bear him.
Worth name of life in thee hath estimate,
Do:
Exit
But not with such familiar instances,
Who's that that bears the sceptre?
I do but stay till your marriage be consummate, and
with her, truly it were an ill thing to be offered
Have we done aught amiss,--show us wherein,
But I and Harry Monmouth! Tell me, tell me,
This is a merry ballad, but a very pretty one.
Thy shape invisible retain thou still:
Now, by my mother's son, and that's myself,
The more we stay, the stronger grows our foe.
Antonio is a good man.
And put upon him such a deal of man,
Hercules' labours; which is, to bring Signior
But it straight starts you.
Lies now even in the centre of this isle,
Gloucester,'
The gods for murder seemed so content
But he that disciplined thy arms to fight,
Yes, there is remedy enough, my lord:
Which when I saw, I reprehended them;
For he will live, and laugh at this hereafter.
What are thy rents? what are thy comings in?
as two and fifty horses: why, nothing comes amiss,
And too impatiently stamp'd with your foot;
That from the prime creation e'er she framed.'
Should I have answer'd Caius Cassius so?
you muddy knave.
Upon our fields.
To have nor eyes nor ears nor thought, then say
I.
She can scarce be there yet.
As mine on hers, so hers is set on mine;
I'll rather kill myself.
That blind priest, like the eldest son of fortune,
And she's obedient, as you say, obedient,
Enter PROTEUS and JULIA
Till you have heard me in my true complaint
This secret is so weighty, 'twill require
Enter AJAX, armed; AGAMEMNON, ACHILLES, PATROCLUS, MENELAUS, ULYSSES, NESTOR, and others
Are not thine own so proper as to waste
Of celebration of that nuptial which
Storm still. Enter KENT and a Gentleman, meeting
I will obey thee. Helicanus!
I know not what you mean by that; but, I am sure,
O, that record is lively in my soul!
For your partaker Pole and you yourself,
ostler bring my gelding out of the stable. Farewell,
Peep'd harms that menaced him: he privily
By day or night,
odd numbers, either in nativity, chance, or death. Away!
How does your lady? and how thrives your love?
Strike those that hurt, and hurt not those that help.
So was I when your highness banish'd him:
Are not you grieved that Arthur is his prisoner?
Touching her flight.
Exeunt
A root of ancient envy. If Jupiter
My father will grant precious things as trifles.
And ask the Lady Bona for thy queen:
Than ever Greek did compass in his arms,
The trumpet sounds a parley
Oh, that deceit should steal such gentle shapes,
Will I? i'faith, that we will; and I will tell your
What a block art thou, that thou canst not! My
Of his almighty dreadful little might.
What do you read, my lord?
It is a pretty mocking of the life.
Sirrah, go fetch the beadle hither straight.
Infects one comma in the course I hold;
Reads
Giving my verdict on the white rose side.
Taste grief, need friends: subjected thus,
What say you, then, to Falconbridge, the young baron
knavery, mark you now, as can be offer't; in your
When heaven shall call her from this cloud of darkness,
I am tame, sir: pronounce.
And by these badges understand the king.
That lady is not now living, or this gentleman's
Alas, I took great pains to study it, and 'tis poetical.
Which heaven shall take in nature of a fee;
duke's time; he promised her marriage: his child
Which never tender lady hath born greater,
be hanged at home: 'tis dangerous. Well, I perceive
Why, that contempt will kill the speaker's heart,
the camp will do among foaming bottles and
with an old man.
Be you then as the people's officer.
is to accuse your mothers; which is most infallible
Tell me what blessings I have here alive,
To prick thy finger, though to wound his heart:
Of our dominions, and that there thou leave it,
Necessitied to help, that by this token
Which gives the stern'st good-night. He is about it:
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
I never saw you in my life till now.
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO, ESCALUS, Lords and Attendants
The conqueror is dismay'd. Proceed, good Alexander.
Exit
I take all and your several visitations
Warwick, although my head still wear the crown,
This savours not much of distraction.
And on the sixth to turn thy hated back
And his unkindness may defeat my life,
You tell her so; must she not then be answer'd?
Some violent hands were laid on Humphrey's life!
With other graces weigh'd.
she make her love known, and she will die, if he woo
SCENE I. Paris. The KING's palace.
Madam, I shall.
Rich men sin, and I eat root.
Go tell the lords o' the city I am here:
Knight, knight, good mother, Basilisco-like.
Would I were with him, wheresome'er he is, either in
And still conclusion, shall acquire no honour
To your own bents dispose you: you'll be found,
Wear out the day in peace; but, ere sunset,
I came to her from Claudio, and desired her
And thee after, when thou hast conquer'd!
The Grecian youths are full of quality;
And so should these, if I might have my will.
this instant to build on thee a better opinion than
Polixenes for Leontes: O thou thing!
I would my skill were subject to thy curse.
from your encounter, then they light on us.
Who's there? Othello?
That is a good William. What is he, William, that
The violets, cowslips, and the primroses,
He drinks
Out of appearance?
thy hand so oft?
a bird? who would give a bird the lie, though he cry
That admiration did not whoop at them:
Stands aside
Thou'dst shiver'd like an egg: but thou dost breathe;
Measures my husband's sorrow by his woe:
devise laws for the blood, but a hot temper leaps
does? a knave very voluble; no further
The frame and huge foundation of the earth
And bear it to the chapel.
Ay, that he was.
Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee:
Elizabeth.
SCENE I. The heath.
A witty mother! witless else her son.
as a gib cat or a lugged bear.
Led by their master to the flowered fields,
present. Why should I carry lies abroad?
Till then sit still, my soul: foul deeds will rise,
Is all the counsel that we two have shared,
But always resolute in most extremes.
Hath homely age the alluring beauty took
SCENE II. The same.
This proves me base:
Deliver him to safety; and return,
how many is killed?
Sure, there's some wonder in this handkerchief:
Which, to betray, dost, with thine angel's face,
Which we have goaded onward.
That he's so slightly valued in his messenger,
Or by the break of day disguised from hence:
we will draw the curtain and show you the picture.
As if the golden fee for which I plead
For some dishonest manners of their life,
a trunk in one corner of it.
Some Juliet, and some Paris; and all run,
Think not on 't, sir.
I know you are not ignorant--
'Tis he that sent us hither now to slaughter thee.
And happiness to his accomplices!
say in the behalf of that Falstaff.
The past proportion of his infinite?
I am a mother to you.
You know the goodness I intend upon you:
Whom love hath turn'd almost the wrong side out,
You are like something that--What country-woman?
Condemn the fault and not the actor of it?
Their softest touch as smart as lizards' sting!
hereafter, rather than story him in his own hearing.
I wish your ladyship all heart's content.
When my good stars, that were my former guides,
I am sorry my integrity should breed,
Edward, kneel down.
I saw a smith stand with his hammer, thus,
Here to have death in peace is all he'll crave.
Beat the approaching Caesar. But if we fail,
And Humphrey is no little man in England.
Madam, do you; 'tis fittest.
[Reads]  'The sleeves curiously cut.'
Where every god did seem to set his seal,
And death, not Romeo, take my maidenhead!
Opposed to  hinder me, should stop my way,
My other self, my counsel's consistory,
And long live thou and these thy forward sons!
but I say, 'tis the bee's wax; for I did but seal
Two Sentinels on guard.
Do me but right, and you must all confess
Hence, you long-legg'd spinners, hence!
shines; I'll make a sop o' the moonshine of you:
Nor tempt the danger of my true defence;
In the divorce his contrary proceedings
That I can match her.
That I return'd with simular proof enough
With repetition of my Romeo's name.
Here she lies, sir.
Let the high office and the honour go
Either thou, or I, or both, must go with him.
Out of his envy's reach, I do oppose
Is all afraid to govern thee near him;
Hath follow'd certain men unto this house.
Even where his lustful eye or savage heart,
They are black vesper's pageants.
His father revell'd in the heart of France,
Turn face to face and bloody point to point;
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
At a poor man's house; he used me kindly:
And spit upon him, whilst I say he lies,
He'll stop the course by which it might be known;
The repetition, in a woman's ear,
Contend against thy valour. Know thou first,
Might bear him company in the quest of him:
that we know one another.
How I am braved and must perforce endure it!
I kiss'd thee ere I kill'd thee: no way but this;
of pewter. But, Francis, darest thou be so valiant
ACT III
With that harsh, noble, simple nothing,
his majesty.
Will or exceed the common or be caught
Why, that they have; and bid them so be gone.
Confound them by some course, and come to me,
The greatest of your having lacks a half
Cousin, I think thou art enamoured
Smiled at their lack of skill, but found
Say who art thou that lately didst descend
That to our sister you do make return;
does well; but how does it well? it does well to
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
They had parted so much honesty among 'em
No, my good lord;
I am to learn;
O, you give me ill counsel.
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
Quarrels unjust against the good and loyal,
E'en at hand, alighted by this; and therefore be
Where, being but a private man again,
And watch'd him how he singled Clifford forth.
Shall remain!
master's command, he must carry for a present to his lady.
If, as his nature is, he fall in rage
You shall by that perceive him and his means:
When roasted crabs hiss in the bowl,
For, on their answer, will we set on them:
His figure and his heat.  I was much wrapt in this;
O, I know where you are: nay, 'tis true: there was
When once she is my wife.
Go, Dromio; there's the money, bear it straight;
move
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Captain Gower: the rascally, scald, beggarly,
Now will I to that old Andronicus;
Fathers that, like so many Alexanders,
Shall not be long but I'll be here again:
Give me thy knife, I will insult on him;
Then, Clifford, were thy heart as hard as steel,
goats, Audrey. And how, Audrey? am I the man yet?
Ay, there it is.
were dead at my foot, and the jewels in her ear!
him by the year, and let him abide here with you; if
With such love as 'tis now, the murkiest den,
Only for praise: and praise we may afford
He thinks he still is at his instrument.
Help, hold his brows! he'll swoon! Why look you pale?
Till he did look on me: since it is so,
Will give thee all the world.
Breaking his oath and resolution like
Why, love, I say! madam! sweet-heart! why, bride!
They are not constant but are changing still
The prescript of this scroll: our fortune lies
Let him come near.
You need it not.
yourselves. Speak to 'em, fool.
At the hour of nine.
Unworthy though thou art, I'll cope with thee
Before the head has any,
The bird is dead
In what have I offended you? what cause
On whom there is no more dependency
Vapians passing the equinoctial of Queubus: 'twas
There's Ulysses and old Nestor, whose wit was mouldy
it in the behalf of his friend: and I'll swear to
You will the sooner, that I were away;
What tributaries follow him to Rome,
In Troy, there lies the scene. From isles of Greece
How full of valour did he bear himself
O'er ladies ' lips, who straight on kisses dream,
Enter WORCESTER and VERNON
Let proof speak.
At any time have recourse unto the princes.
What would you have?
I know the knight is incensed against you, even to a
broke bread; but God is to be worshipped; all men
Maids as we are, to travel forth so far!
You men will never tarry.
Sir, he's a good dog, and a fair dog: can there be
Pardon, I pray thee, for my mad mistaking.
Exeunt
Well, honour is the subject of my story.
The several chairs of order look you scour
He drinks
Enter ALCIBIADES, with the rest
Election makes not up on such conditions.
The handmaids of all women, or, more truly,
A spirit raised from depth of under-ground,
Even in so short a space, my woman's heart
Do what you can, yours will not be entreated.
Whilst some with cunning gild their copper crowns,
He ask'd me for a thousand marks in gold:
'Tis so, they are afoot.
Exit
O Lord, sir, they would know
as pigeons bill, so wedlock would be nibbling.
For who love I so much? And now who knows
A goodly humour, is it not, my lords?
her wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.
And call itself your brother.
Well, ruffian, I must pocket up these wrongs, Because--
The door is open, sir; there lies your way;
If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter
Why should hard-favour'd grief be lodged in thee,
Whether Bassanio had not once a love.
Shakes all our buds from growing.
Where's your father?
'Faith, nothing but an empty box, sir; which, in my
Enter ISABELLA
Driving them forward
Trebonius knows his time; for, look you, Brutus.
You have received many wounds for your country.
To her he thinks not worthy, yet he wooes,
O, I have heard him speak of that same brother;
We'll come to you after hunting.
wert thou a horse, thou wouldst be seized by the
Which we ascribe to heaven: the fated sky
None rare, my lord.
Or that persuasion could but thus convince me,
Him will I tear out of that cruel eye,
With those clear rays which she infused on me
Pray, get you out.
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
No news so bad abroad as this at home;
Ay, just; a verse in Horace; right, you have it.
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty,
How now, my noble lord? what, all afoot?
And when I have heard it, what blessing brings it?
Aloud
'Tis rigor and not law. Your honours all,
have bad dreams.
That Timon's fortunes 'mong his friends can sink.
Is Cade the son of Henry the Fifth,
Some griefs are med'cinable; that is one of them,
I make you both protectors of this land,
O, yes; if any hour meet a sergeant, a' turns back for
Proved us unspeaking sots.
Where is my page? Go, villain, fetch a surgeon.
May be abused? Have you not read, Roderigo,
Stabbing MUTIUS
Pronounce that sentence then on me, my liege:
Why, Valentine, what braggardism is this?
The ripest fruit first falls, and so doth he;
And every one with claps can sound,
Yea, thrust this enterprise into my heart;
This is the rascal; this is he I spoke of.
of winter's sisterhood kisses not more religiously;
My lord, will't please you pass along?
Slander her love, and he forgave it her.
If I pervert your course. Who's here?
And, look you, here's your letter; this it says:
Come place him here by me,
ANTIPHOLUS
By heaven, that should be my handkerchief!
Bar his access to the king, never attempt
By any in this presence, I desire
Chrish save me, I will cut off your head.
Hence, broker-lackey! ignomy and shame
Hast thou been drawn to by thy fantasy?
should lodge them with this sign.
And, madam,
The day is yours.
But think her bond of chastity quite crack'd,
Pardon, madam;
Pages, and footboys.
Hear the shrill whistle which doth order give
Who sets me else? by heaven, I'll throw at all:
Trouble yourselves no further: pray you, hasten
in you is a virtue of a good wing, and I like the wear well.
The mayor is here at hand: intend some fear;
Hark, hark, you gods!
That more than all the world I did respect her.
When I have envied thy behavior.
Might go one way, and safely; and the end
As from a conduit with three issuing spouts,
bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
Exit
What do you mean?
May he not do it by fine and recovery?
Wilt come? I'll follow, Stephano.
A grievous fault! Say, woman, didst thou so?
Why, would not you?
Laertes, was your father dear to you?
Bid him farewell; commit him to the grave;
Alas, thrice-gentle Cassio!
There were no suns to borrow of.
The other, at high wish: best state, contentless,
Amongst much other talk, that very time,
How now, masters!
Why, how now, father!
them down again, for the man must not be hanged till
linen: since when, I'll be sworn, he wore none but
Well, sir.
shrinks from him.
Is, as in mockery, set: the spring, the summer,
This Edward, whom our manners term the prince.
If thou more murmur'st, I will rend an oak
O gods!
Who worship dirty gods.
That way, I'll this,--he that first lights on him
Lay forth the gown.
my beck than I have thoughts to put them in,
And let me be a slave, to achieve that maid
take the word of a king and a bachelor. How answer
If she be fair and wise, fairness and wit,
Lend me the letter; let me see what news.
My words are dull; O, quicken them with thine!
Lips, let sour words go by and language end:
This hath some seeming.
Thou shalt fly him and he shall seek thy love.
And though it was mine own, part of my heritage,
His outsides, to wear them like his raiment,
go one way or other: howsoever, he shall pay for me
I am marble-constant; now the fleeting moon
the bear loose, are you not?
At your best leisure, this his humble suit.
Thee o'er to harshness: her eyes are fierce; but thine
I cannot love her, nor will strive to do't.
Which with my scimitar I'll cool to-morrow.
Ay, sir; a mystery
You are deceived; 'tis not so.
You make my bonds still greater.
Madam, in happy time, what day is that?
I reason'd with a Frenchman yesterday,
Exeunt PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
And honest Casca, we have the falling sickness.
You depend upon him, I mean?
Why even what fashion thou best likest, Lucetta.
For every false drop in her bawdy veins
I am most glad
If ever he have child, abortive be it,
After your dire-lamenting elegies,
As pearls from diamonds dropp'd. In brief,
Or the baring of my beard; and to say it was in
Alarums. Enter KING JOHN and HUBERT
the prince thou art a tall fellow of thy hands and
And shall I couple hell? O, fie! Hold, hold, my heart;
Unstate his happiness, and be staged to the show,
Is, that he was the lord ambassador
And quick Biron hath plighted faith to me.
gentlewoman about me; and I know, Kate, you will to
bawdy-house; they pick pockets.
To stale 't a little more.
One: tell.
How far is't call'd to Forres? What are these
Strike him, Aumerle. Poor boy, thou art amazed.
And make distinct the very breach whereout
Each corporal agent to this terrible feat.
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror:
His comforts thrive, his trials well are spent.
SCENE IV. Paris. The KING's palace.
When at their mothers' moist eyes babes shall suck,
I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and
I say, Amen, Gonzalo!
Some tardy cripple bore the countermand,
None that beheld him, but, like lesser lights,
advisings: to the love I have in doing good a
Fair ladies mask'd are roses in their bud;
But follows it, my lord, to bring me down
And in dimension and the shape of nature
Re-enter FLUELLEN, GOWER following
How so, sir? Did she change her determination?
Pardon, my gracious lord; for I submit
Dear master, I can go no further. O, I die for food!
Past thought! What said she to you? Get more tapers:
Thus by Apollo's great divine seal'd up,
Here's all that is left living of your queen,
sanctuary; and people sin upon purpose, because they
To part so slightly with your wife's first gift:
Come to the king and tell him what miracle.
While we devise fell tortures for thy faults.
For the only she; and--pauca, there's enough. Go to.
Enter PARIS and HELEN, attended
Thou dost beguile me! Was this face the face
What's the matter?
What's the matter, sir?
ANTIPHOLUS
There if I grow,
O, stay but till then!
Wilt thou not, Jule?' and, by my holidame,
Discomfited great Douglas, ta'en him once,
But it is doubtful yet,
Peace, villain!
Lord Say, Jack Cade hath sworn to have thy head.
Exit
Away towards Salisbury! while we reason here,
And bless the good remainders of the court! I am gone.
Henry is youthful and will quickly yield.
And by how much she strives to do him good,
Whom I with all the office of my heart
By this time, had the king permitted us,
Thus can the demigod Authority
out, and give it him.' But there was such laughing!
And, which became him like a prince indeed,
What are they that do play it?
You sign your place and calling, in full seeming,
What would you have me do?
His favour with the radiant Cymbeline,
He that no more must say is listen'd more
And answer was return'd that he will come.
The fringed curtains of thine eye advance
thank my God it holds yet.
I am.
As often as we eat. By the elements,
Thy reason, dear venom, give thy reason.
Such violent hands upon her tender life.
And that your grace hath screen'd and stood between
Divide themselves between you!
My lord, to step out of these dreary dumps,
I know it well, my Lord; and, sure, the match
What,
Give signs, sweet girl, for here are none
parler. Comment appelez-vous la main en Anglois?
But we in silence hold this virtue well,
Where as thou know'st, against the face of death,
marriage honourable in a beggar? Is not your lord
for our rehearsal. This green plot shall be our
So much fairer
Your cuckoo sings by kind.
Than crave the hire which first we do deserve.
mistress exceeds in goodness the hugeness of your
Madam, an if my brother had my shape,
Your mind is the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the
But one, poor one, one poor and loving child,
and ceremony: let me comply with you in this garb,
'Tis meet he be condemn'd by course of law.
As fire, air, water, earth, and heaven can make,
The name, and all the additions to a king;
are in love or that you will be in love or that you
See you now;
The stages of our story. Pericles
want. Here comes Sir Oliver.
How little is the cost I have bestow'd
And take your good grace from me? Heaven witness,
And so much duty as my mother show'd
Before her troth-plight: say't and justify't.
How now Ulysses!
From the dead temples of this bloody wretch
gentlewoman to Hero.
And all-admiring with an inward wish
That twenty such rude boys might tend upon
White-beards have arm'd their thin and hairless scalps
Whither you will, so I were from your sights.
to her by oath, and the nuptial appointed: between
Thy loss is more than can thy portage quit,
It was both impious and unnatural
If he were dead, what would betide of me?
notorious bawd.
And that in Tarsus was not best
Enter Captains and Soldiers
That all the standers-by had wet their cheeks
Be factious for redress of all these griefs,
All these accused him strongly; which he fain
The captainship, thou shalt be met with thanks,
Right, you say true: as Hereford's love, so his;
Hang loose about him, like a giant's robe
I will not speak with her.
Hail, King of Scotland!
Let us be keen, and rather cut a little,
wantons, down!' 'Twas her brother that, in pure
I am not well in health, and that is all.
yourself: many likelihoods informed me of this
The provost knows our purpose and our plot.
The nightingale, if she should sing by day,
Peace, wilful boy, or I will charm your tongue.
We are all frail.
I do not, till you practise them on me.
thank you: and sure, dear friends, my thanks are
To meet all perils very constantly.
To seek out sorrow that dwells every where.
And take the shame with joy.
My lord, you do me shameful injury,
What sayest thou, my bully-rook?
SCENE II. Rome. Before TITUS's house.
On the fair Cressid.
We know't, we know't.
To grim Necessity, and he and I
stand upon your honour! Why, thou unconfinable
SCENE I. Before an alehouse on a heath.
I do believe thee: live.
I am so full of businesses, I cannot answer thee
Does thoughts unveil in their dumb cradles.
Dost thou know me, fellow?
SCENE I. A room in POLONIUS' house.
Your own desert!
Came to the bar; where to his accusations
study a speech of some dozen or sixteen lines, which
shall fall in love with Beatrice. If we can do this,
Decrease not, but grow faster than the years:
Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world.
Yet 'banished'? Hang up philosophy!
Would it were mortal poison, for thy sake!
sea-sick, and himself little better, extremity of
remember him now; a bawd, a cutpurse.
Want no money, Sir John; you shall want none.
I will have none on't: we shall lose our time,
To keep us in false gaze. When we consider
But now her price is fall'n. Sir, there she stands:
well. Heaven prosper our sport! No man means evil
Devil or devil's dam, I'll conjure thee:
And then pursue me as you draw your bow.
Art ignorant of what thou art, nought knowing
And what a pitch she flew above the rest!
The time now serves not to expostulate:
Out, loathed medicine! hated potion, hence!
And choke their art. The merciless Macdonwald--
father got excellent husbands, if a maid could come by them.
would this be, if he durst steal any thing
to you, to set her before your eyes tomorrow human
No, my complete master: but to jig off a tune at
Of an invincible unconquer'd spirit!
How now! has sorrow made thee dote already?
Once more, well met at Cyprus.
Duke Alencon's.
What is your gracious pleasure?
To show my duty in your coronation,
whisper him in your behalfs; and if it be in man
Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,
The tomb where grief should sleep, can breed me quiet?
Where, if you bring not Marcius, we'll proceed
[To LUCILIUS]           Love you the maid?
I'll follow this good man, and go with you;
You know since Pentecost the sum is due,
I speak not this as doubting any here
The queen shall then have courtesy, so she
Is there no remedy?
If e'er this coffin drive a-land,
beguile the old pantaloon.
To help him of his blindness,
forest lays claim to you.
It is, it is: hie hence, be gone, away!
Take some remembrance of us, as a tribute,
And your lips too; for I am well assured
With dead men hurt behind, and cowards living
Is of so flood-gate and o'erbearing nature
A hundred thousand rebels die in this:
Would I be guilty of so deep a sin.
Or when she would with sharp needle wound
But you, that are polluted with your lusts,
Yon light is not day-light, I know it, I:
The nine men's morris is fill'd up with mud,
Why, that's well said.
[Aside]  Perish, base prince, ignoble Duke of York!
Now he tells how she plucked him to my chamber. O,
And he does chide with you.
Ah, sirrah!
And as his father here was conqueror,
Had the fore-hand and vantage of a king.
Ay, pilgrim, lips that they must use in prayer.
Here.
carriage; and, as I think, his age some fifty, or,
Come, good Athenian.
Am I a queen in title and in style,
I heard a bustling rumour, like a fray,
Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance
I beseech you, peace:
His eyes are humbler than they used to be.
PROLOGUE
Call it by what you will, the day is yours;
I have dogs, my lord,
This match'd with other did, my gracious lord;
Have you sent to Bottom's house ? is he come home yet?
and between these main parcels of dispatch effected
pray you, leave me.
If this were true, then should I know this secret.
Yet must we join with him and with the lords,
Must answer for your raising? I know her well:
Sing in our sweet lullaby;
So he would keep fair quarter with his bed!
Base and unlustrous as the smoky light
Thou wouldst have left thy dearest heart-blood there,
Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and STANLEY
Have follow'd your sad steps.
To one of woman born.
Must needs appear offence.
country than one voluptuously surfeit out of action.
To stir men's blood: I only speak right on;
This they have promised, to show your highness
My lord, I scarce have leisure to salute you,
Two or three groan: it is a heavy night:
With flight and agued fear! Mend and charge home,
Will not go from my mind; I have much to do,
Does purpose honour to you no less flowing
Madam, if you could find out but a man
That in a Christian climate souls refined
And in this hand the other I will bear.
So let it help me now against thy sword
Do not think so; you shall not find it so:
I do arrest your words. Be that you are,
Through the transparent bosom of the deep,
There's letters seal'd: and my two schoolfellows,
And if he chance to speak, be ready straight
So! in the name of Jesu Christ, speak lower. It is
Your single bond; and, in a merry sport,
Get ye all three into the box-tree: Malvolio's
Made me compare with Hermia's sphery eyne?
Lovers, make moan:
MOTH retires
Let me embrace thee in my weary arms:
Have comfort, for I know your plight is pitied
Exit
[Within]  Nothing but death shall stay me.
to see so many dip their meat in one man's blood;
The noble Imogen to repent, and struck
There's neither honesty, manhood, nor good
What, master, read you? first resolve me that.
You will do't, sir, really.
I humbly set it at your will; but, for my mistress,
Rise up, good aunt.
was ill killed. How doth good Mistress Page?--and I
Why are our bodies soft and weak and smooth,
The truth of your own seeming; that you may--
To a morning's holy office: the gates of monarchs
Enter KING RICHARD III in arms, with NORFOLK, SURREY, and others
ours, for we are the only love-gods. Go in with me,
To think an English courtier may be wise,
All's one to him. What a past-saving slave is this!
And will acknowledge you and Jessica
Myself, my brother and this grieved count
Yet, gracious madam, bear it as you may:
The nature of it? in what kind, let's know,
The gaoler to his pity. I kneel'd before him;
you hindered by the sergeant, to tarry for the hoy
A dance
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
Exeunt General,  and c
Truly, sir, in my poor opinion, they will to't then.
I will entreat you, when you see my son,
Than ever at one time the clergy yet
No, boy, but as well as I can do them. Peace!
To his music plants and flowers
excellent jests, fire-new from the mint, you should
I come not, friends, to steal away your hearts:
So I bequeath a happy peace to you
Is Caesar with Antonius prized so slight?
Whom you pretend to honour and adore,
And does blaspheme his breed? Thy royal father
Ay me!
Amongst this princely heap, if any here,
Worthy Sebastian? O, what might?--No more:--
Seizes and disarms her
How pitiful I deserve,--
Master, for my hand,
And yet she is inferior to none.
Whilst he that hears makes fearful action,
And I will provoke him to't, or let him wag.
A hound that runs counter and yet draws dryfoot well;
As Hymen's lamps shall light you.
To feel only looking on fairest of fair:
But let the world rank me in register
Falstaff's being here; for I never saw him so gross
Madam, you wrong the king's love with these fears:
To such exsufflicate and blown surmises,
Had you a special warrant for the deed?
How comes it then that thou art call'd a king,
Shaked like a coward.
I have forsworn.
your pocket like a man after the old painting; and
SCENE VIII. Before KING HENRY'S pavilion.
Of nature's germens tumble all together,
Falling on his sword
Under their blessed wings!
And, with thy shame, thy father's sorrow die!
I do owe them still
them meet; that that same young Trojan ass, that
Had virtuous uncles to protect his grace.
If I know more of any man alive
art thou within point-blank of our jurisdiction
If he suspect I may dishonour him:
And mingle with the English epicures:
Were man as rare as phoenix. 'Od's my will!
By my heel, I care not.
Oxford, redoubted Pembroke, Sir James Blunt,
Exeunt all but the BASTARD
And would have armour here out of the Tower,
We but offend him. Strike!
Sweet love! sweet lines! sweet life!
Hides not his visage from our cottage but
Go to; let that be mine:
But mantled in your own.
Till your strong hand shall help to give him strength
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
Pursue thy life, and live aye with thy name!
Past speaking of in a king! Thou hast one daughter,
Of either, madam.
Huntsman, what say'st thou? wilt thou go along?
And Britons strut with courage.
I hope you do not mean to cheat me so.
Ere it was ask'd; but when the way was made,
Pray, sir, in what?
Laissez, mon seigneur, laissez, laissez: ma foi, je
I pray you, bear vitness that me have stay six or
Enter certain Romans, with spoils
Thy nephew and right royal sovereign.
Sir, your honour cannot come to that yet.
Re-enter ORLANDO, with ADAM
Under the hatches; the master and the boatswain
With her, on her; what you will.
them, I will describe them; and, according to my
know on't; would I were hanged, la, else.
thee, captain,
And though you know my inwardness and love
I would not from thee.
for credit of the 'prentices.
The worthiest men have done't?
You whoreson villain! will you let it fall?
cuckold. Come to me soon at night.
Thou canst not, cardinal, devise a name
An open et caetera, thou a poperin pear!
'Tis the ninth hour o' the morn.
Exeunt
For the rain,  and c.
And we alive that lived? Fly, damned baseness,
Exeunt
Of easy ways to die. Take up her bed;
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters,
It does, my boy:
Enter CAPULET, LADY CAPULET, and PARIS
I'll ask him what he would. Did you call, sir?
That both the worlds I give to negligence,
swain,--I keep her as a vessel of the law's fury;
Doth your highness call?
Kinsmen of mine, three at the least, that have
Had twenty years been made. This is a stem
'Tis like a coffin, sir.
Exit
Sir, I know not how I may deserve to be your porter.
Study to break it and not break my troth.
Till then, enough. Come, friends.
As to be hush'd and nought at all to say:
joints of every thing, but everything so out of joint
'Thus saith the duke, thus hath the duke inferr'd;'
he's but a filthy piece of work.
To bring me thither?
Marry, sir, half a day's journey: and I'll tell
To win this easy match play'd for a crown?
Ay, what's o'clock?
Too rude, too boisterous, and it pricks like thorn.
Lay not your blame on me: If you have lost him,
To each of you one fair and virtuous mistress
It was an answer: how apply you this?
Here is the man.
Hang them or stab them, drown them in a draught,
Beyond you, to your friends.
Why, how now, dame! whence grows this insolence?
If fairings come thus plentifully in:
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
For your own reasons turn into your bosoms,
Which trust accordingly, kind citizens,
And such high vaunts of his nobility,
Let it be virtuous to be obstinate.
Then make a ring about the corpse of Caesar,
How do you mean?
My brain more busy than the labouring spider
Hippolyta, I woo'd thee with my sword,
O most bloody sight!
And let his very breath, whom thou'lt observe,
I'll pay that doctrine, or else die in debt.
Though bearing misery, I desire my life
There is a lord will hear you play to-night:
You are amazed, my liege, at her exclaim:
The blushes in my cheeks thus whisper me,
Whereas the contrary bringeth bliss,
From this my hand, as holding of the pope
Your lordships, that, whenever you have need,
As slept within the shadow of your power
Continued so, until we thought he died.
What art thou?
She comes more nearer earth than she was wont,
The plate, corn, revenues and moveables,
Yet they are not join'd: where yond pine
Come, muster men: my counsel is my shield;
wonder how thou darest venture to be drunk, not
richly adorned with pearl, crowned. On each
Came to my tent; and every one did threat
horns together, like any deer i' the herd.
Meantime we shall express our darker purpose.
And I say, the pollusion holds in the exchange; for
I beg of you to know me, good my lord,
Is as a meeting of the petty gods,
The fields are near, and you are gallant grooms:
Hang him, poor cuckoldly knave! I know him not:
Shall be the maws of kites.
Doomsday is near; die all, die merrily.
And let me have them very well perfumed
I am none of these, my lord; I beseech your pardon.
And he that brings his head unto the king
That charge their breath against us? say, scout, say.
We'll call thee at the cubiculo: go.
Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES, with other Lords of Tyre
You have condemn'd and noted Lucius Pella
I am content; so he will let me have
Mine, full of sorrow and heart's discontent.
I did not: he was but a fool that brought
If you contend, a thousand lives must wither.
the mountain of mad flesh that claims marriage of
And live with Richmond, from the reach of hell
Come on: since the youth will not be entreated, his
Fare you well.
That is the word. I thee defy again.
thing that is fitting to be known, discover.
is now the general: may say so in this respect, for
Wishing him my meat. Sure, he's a gallant gentleman.
And blown with restless violence round about
Who then but English Henry will be lord
Exit Ghost
Albeit against my conscience and my soul.
Has almost charmed me from my profession, by
Why I your purse?
I could not do withal; then I'll repent,
Marry, this is our device;
You did supplant your brother Prospero.
[Aside to NERISSA]  Thou mayst, I warrant.
I do not misdoubt my wife; but I would be loath to
Lions more confident, mountains and rocks
Worm nor snail, do no offence.
Tarry you a little-a while.
To-morrow, cousin Percy, you and I
Till she had laid it and conjured it down;
Ay, Caesar; but not gone.
Great Troy is ours, and our sharp wars are ended.
and let the world slip: we shall ne'er be younger.
Take up the sword again, or take up me.
That he is too familiar with his wife.
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge,
Unless things mortal move them not at all,
The name thou owest not; and hast put thyself
what verse for it? what instance for it? Let me see:
Please your honours,
And here I stand, both to impeach and purge
he dead, my Francisco? ha, bully! What says my
things that are hollow: thy bones are hollow;
Almost at point to enter.
To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous
Discredit more in hiding of the fault
Sir, make me not your story.
Whilst upon me the guilty doors were shut
O heaven, O earth, bear witness to this sound
Not yet, Sir Thomas Lovell. What's the matter?
Intents but merely thoughts.
Now my old arms are young John Talbot's grave.
Verona, for a while I take my leave,
Gloucester and Buckingham.
A tower'd citadel, a pendent rock,
And yet the fire of life kindle again
Enter SIMPLE
Now, France, thy glory droopeth to the dust.
Here, at your service. My lord approaches.
With whom each minute threatens life or death.
By this reckoning he is more shrew than she.
hand, help me to a candle, and pen, ink and paper:
Sir, no; his indignation derives itself out of a
Go thou before, be our ambassador:
Where honourable rescue and defence
The queen of curds and cream.
What trumpet? look, Menelaus.
Is this face Hero's? are our eyes our own?
Both noisome and infectious.
Our sorrow with our comfort.
And he a prince and ruler of the land:
She loves me, sure; the cunning of her passion
Unmasking
Hath been enacted through your enmity;
Sir Valentine, your father's in good health:
My name is Caius Marcius, who hath done
In faith, my lord, you are too wilful-blame;
And bid her hasten all the house to bed,
Wherein hath Caesar thus deserved your loves?
would we had so ended! but you, sir, altered that;
Gods are more full of mercy. Must I repent?
For hunting was his daily exercise.
Who dare cross 'em,
Why ask you?
In his true nature; and we ourselves compell'd,
For when would you, my liege, or you, or you,
To save this bastard's life,--for 'tis a bastard,
But thou anon shalt hear of me again;
As ornaments oft do, too dangerous:
Now join your hands, and with your hands your hearts,
With twenty hundred thousand times more joy
Would he not stumble? would he not fall down,
To those which would not know them, and yet must
And how long lay you there?
throat; that is not the matter I challenge thee for.'
Win straying souls with modesty again,
Do you love my son?
court. You told me you salute not at the court, but
Being but the one half of an entire sum
No evil lost is wail'd when it is gone.
I here proclaim myself thy mortal foe,
And our twelve thousand horse. We'll to our ship:
I shall remember this bold language.
A beggar, brother?
constable?
But what indeed is honest to be done:
SCENE IV. Rome. A public place.
So like you, sir, ambassadors from Rome;
Well, there went but a pair of shears between us.
Fall, and cease!
Hath given the duchy of Anjou and Maine
My gracious lord, I'll tell him what you say.
Why, none but mine own people.
Get you hence, for I must go
Young lords, beware! and should the empress know
Here they fight, and JOAN LA PUCELLE overcomes
To climb his happiness, would be well express'd
Desired more than constrain'd: to satisfy,
that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for,
For every drop of blood was drawn from him,
Said, 'twas the fear, indeed; and that he doubted
Queen o'er myself: and even now, but now,
We shall,
Fear you his tyrannous passion more, alas,
Behind the globe, that lights the lower world,
You press me far, and therefore I will yield.
We will here part.
We carry not a heart with us from hence
Throws them down
the house.
Above the sense of sense; so sensible
Like music.
Will you not, my lord?
Are you not well?
And how stand you affected to his wish?
I would deny it; but you see my finger
I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
Exeunt
No, pray thee, good Meg, I'll wear this.
Her affability and bashful modesty,
That goes not out to prey. Now, as fond fathers,
For none but Samsons and Goliases
oftener ask forgiveness.
That one by one pursue: if you give way,
I muse my Lord of Gloucester is not come:
I am bound to your niece, sir; I mean, she is the
Forced by the tide to combat with the wind;
You look wearily.
As I remember, this should be the house.
Coventry with them, that's flat: nay, and the
He is a better scholar than I thought he was.
Think upon Grey, and let thy soul despair!
That now you are come, you will be gone. Leave me
I did, Sir Thomas: and left him at primero
humour and like enough to consent. What would you
Ay; and that thou and the proudest of you all shall
COUNTESS
Come, come, you have been too rough, something
Well, girl, thou weep'st not so much for his death,
Enter ACHILLES, with Myrmidons
No longer exercise
Exit
We three here art that ne'er shall meet again.
And no way from yourselves. What do you think,
For gnarling sorrow hath less power to bite
How does his highness?
Give me the crown. Here, cousin, seize the crown;
With such a kind of love as might become
The nature of our seats and make the rabble
It would allay the burning quality
Re-enter Second and Third Fishermen, drawing up a net
not hurt: it is a thoroughfare for steel, if it be not hurt.
A native slip to us from foreign seeds:
Your will?
Thou art thy father's daughter; there's enough.
ACT V
motley in my brain. Good madonna, give me leave to
this but as an essay or taste of my virtue.
have all his rites.
all.
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
and only the gift of the gods.
Exampled by the first pace that is sick
With curses in her mouth, tears in her eyes,
To the April day again. Come, damned earth,
SCENE II. Before York.
their villany goes against my weak stomach, and
I ever contradicted your desire,
To FLAVIUS
O Harry's wife, triumph not in my woes!
Which was, that he, in lieu o' the premises
Re-enter SIR TOBY BELCH, with SIR ANDREW
Am I the master here, or you? go to.
the place for your labour.
a true man.
are wise and full of gibes and vlouting-stocks, and
Bequeath thy land to him and follow me?
If he arise, be mock'd and wonder'd at.
Or, by our greatness and the grace of it,
And wakes it now, to look so green and pale
With an augmented greeting.
Arise, arise.
the writing nor the tune.
Peace! count the clock.
Repent what you have spoke.
Accept my thankfulness.
Nay, but the man that was his bedfellow,
Noise again
I have spoke long: be pleased yourself to say
Upon thy princely warrant, I descend
Since therein she doth evitate and shun
And so let's leave her to her silent walks.
Hast thou not sworn allegiance unto me?
Cleopatra's majesty,
You both are rivals, and love Hermia;
Where did I leave?
That will encounter with our glorious sun,
an honourable man.
Will well become the seat of majesty,
Grace me no grace, nor uncle me no uncle:
Approves her fit for none but for a king:
And all we mourn for.
And then I'll study how to die.
ANTIPHOLUS
But when his fair course is not hindered,
Golden lads and girls all must,
O peace, peace, peace! now, now.
With libbard's head on knee.
What since thou sworest is sworn against thyself
He sends you this most memorable line,
Stir not until the signal.
If thou dost, I shall never love thee after. Why,
Thus plated in habiliments of war,
Cannot outfly our apprehensions.
The enemy of all your graces lives:
The sands are number'd that make up my life;
Where art thou, keeper? give me a cup of wine.
Be patient till the last.
Well, he shall be beheaded for it ten times. Ah,
And the place death, considering who thou art,
think the Frenchman became his surety and sealed
Myself a former fortune.
You heavenly blessings, on her! This fool's speed
I pray you, pass with your best violence;
Sure, the boy heard me: Brutus hath a suit
Fool's play, by heaven, Hector.
his incensement at this moment is so implacable,
[Aside to SUFFOLK]      If it do,
We serve you, madam,
Shall as a carpet hang upon thy grave,
Shall fall you for refusing him at sea,
What's thy name?
Thy ear is liable; thy food is such
Being strong on both sides, are equivocal:
To be called into a huge sphere, and not to be seen
I' the midst o' the body, idle and unactive,
So every scope by the immoderate use
Than on a wretch whom nature is ashamed
Within the limit of becoming mirth,
Ay, but I hope your highness shall have his.
Let it be so. Say, where will you assault?
Thou art a widow, and thou hast some children;
Stay, sir king:
To Milford-Haven.
hours at the trade.
Forerun fair Love, strewing her way with flowers.
Both welcome and protection. Take up thy master:
'Tis to be fear'd they all will follow him.
I thought King Henry had resembled thee
Exit, pursued by a bear
It was the copy of our conference:
SCENE I. A Sea-port in Cyprus. An open place near the quay.
And therefore I forbid my tears: but yet
Alas, alas!
But hark, a voice! stay thou but here awhile,
Antony
And they have troops of soldiers at their beck?
Do you see nothing there?
Rudesby, be gone!
No light, no fire: the unfriendly elements
But I am shepherd to another man
Peace, peace!
These counties were the keys of Normandy.
rebellion of a codpiece to take away the life of a
Why, rude companion, whatsoe'er thou be,
Ring, bells, aloud; burn, bonfires, clear and bright,
Behold, distraction, frenzy and amazement,
Which of a weak or niggardly projection
Good troth, you do me wrong, good sooth, you do,
The regent made in Mytilene
SCENE IV. Before the castle.
He was too hard for him directly, to say the troth
On whose eyes I might approve
When he was seated in a chariot
My honour would not let ingratitude
And go well satisfied to France again.
But there was such laughing! Queen Hecuba laughed
Behind the arras I'll convey myself,
Yet who's so blind, but says he sees it not?
leave these rogues, I am the veriest varlet that
Look, here she comes.
Yet let us all together to our troops,
Displace our heads where--thank the gods!--they grow,
This will last out a night in Russia,
Which with such gentle sorrow he shook off,
A proper man.
Then Troilus should have too much: if she praised
Never, my lord: but I have heard him oft
The summer still doth tend upon my state;
Pray, do not, sir: I have watched and travell'd hard;
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
How long is't now since last yourself and I
Say I will come.
Sovereign, here lies the County Paris slain;
O thou dissembling cub! what wilt thou be
But when in other habits you are seen,
in a retreat he outruns any lackey; marry, in coming
then you will play bare-faced. But, masters, here
[Aside]  Though this be madness, yet there is method
That doth not smack of observation;
Inflamed with Venus: never did young man fancy
wrong a Jew, what should his sufferance be by
O Lewis, stand fast! the devil tempts thee here
my son.' 'My daughter.' 'He killed my cousin
To tell you plain, I had rather lie in prison.
sympathy in years, manners and beauties; all which
You and your apron-men; you that stood so up much
The Duke of Exeter doth love thee well.
We cannot take this for answer, sir.
Go, look after.
Let's reason with the worst that may befall.
A workman in't.
He has brave utensils,--for so he calls them--
It doth not fit me. Hold, sir, here's my purse.
Ah, heavens, it is a most pathetical nit!
Soon sleep in quiet. O, how my heart abhors
Of him that, his particular to foresee,
our wills are gardeners: so that if we will plant
That sets us all at odds: I'll not endure it:
Frowns at this levity. Gentle lords, let's part;
my eyes on thy picture. and my heart on thy every
The more she gives them speech. Where do you live?
My affections
Do with your injuries as seems you best,
Since when, my watch hath told me, toward my grave
And towards himself, his goodness forespent on us,
warmth is there in your affection towards any of
Well, my good lord; and as the only means
England, from Trent and Severn hitherto,
'The fiend, the fiend:' he led me to that place.
Well, he in time may come to clear himself;
She levell'd at our purposes, and, being royal,
Nay, we will slink away in supper-time,
I think his understanding is bereft.
The love of him, and this respect besides,
Myself to see the issue.
sword so hacked?
lie on my head.
colour; some swooned, all sorrowed: if all the world
Why, fear not, man; I will not forfeit it:
Had you not fully laid my state before me,
And tribunes with their tongues doom men to death.
Save you, worthy general!
Dismiss your followers and, as suitors should,
Then fairly I bespoke the officer
So tender of rebukes that words are strokes
He hath good usage and great liberty,
Marry, farewell! I pray you, sir, what saucy
Well I know the man.
O, she doth teach the torches to burn bright!
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Are ye advised? the
Tell you the lady what she is to do,
shift for one; and so, God's curse light upon you
Why, now I see there's mettle in thee, and even from
matched, unless the devil himself turn Jew.
The king's a bawcock, and a heart of gold,
Sing still for Richard's soul. More will I do;
Whilst bloody treason flourish'd over us.
Ask God for temperance; that's the appliance only
Hail, virgin, if you be, as those cheek-roses
We will die all three:
I'll be with her by and by; I'll but bring my young
Whose beauty did astonish the survey
which I will be ever to pay and yet pay still.
Be pitiful to my condemned sons,
The gods protect you!
Came pouring, like the tide into a breach,
deal with my master, he hath learnt me so much fence already.
Which is a great way growing on the south,
Widow! Charmian, hark.
I'll claim that promise at your grace's hands.
Dispatch it presently; the hour draws on
Fie, fie, Master Ford! are you not ashamed? What
SCENE II. GLOUCESTER'S house.
He writes his name with his staff, and guides it with feet and mouth
Charles, good night.
So to most noble Caesar.
That won you without blows! Despising,
For the red blood reigns in the winter's pale.
I thank thee, Varrius; thou hast made good haste:
a coal of fire, sometimes plue and sometimes red;
The thickest and the tallest.
Have after. To what issue will this come?
The voice of dead Thaisa!
Though in thy youth thou wast as true a lover
Enter HUBERT and Executioners
What, I! I love! I sue! I seek a wife!
Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods,
wretched corse, of wretched soul bereft:
Then, sir,
Though thou the waters warp,
Do you amend it then; it lies in you:
As a tired horse, a railing wife;
And keep me on the side where still I am.
Drum afar off
Let's meet him and receive him.
My father's goods are all distrain'd and sold,
Bliss and goodness on you!
Too well what love women to men may owe:
Before this earthy prison of their bones;
[Aside]               You will be whipp'd.
Good friends, go in, and taste some wine with me;
I will be squared by this. I do believe
I must believe you, sir:
above seven times a week; went to a bawdy-house once
I to my grave, where peace and rest lie with me!
And waits upon the judgment: and what judgment
Exeunt
Either envy, therefore, or misprison
I'll have it so. My steward!
I'll find a thousand shifts to get away:
so to heart the banishment of that worthy
I am bound to serve.
Stabb'd by the selfsame hand that made these wounds!
How ill agrees it with your gravity
He will, forsooth, have all my prisoners;
raisins o' the sun.
Yet all goes well, yet all our joints are whole.
Toad!
Good my lord, forbear:
But hearts for the event.
Dashes the fire out. O, I have suffered
Bury him where you can; he comes not here.
if bawdy talk offend you, we'll have very little of
I am glad
I cross'd the seas on purpose and on promise
Marry, would the word 'farewell' have lengthen'd hours
Too well, too well thou tell'st a tale so ill.
Out of this fell devouring receptacle,
society,--which in the boorish is company,--of this
Ah, Luciana, did he tempt thee so?
That's the curse of Rome.
He is our cousin, cousin; but 'tis doubt,
O fool! fool! fool!
Lend me your horn to make one, and I will whip about
Let me be ignorant, and in nothing good,
I have no will to wander forth of doors,
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me.
That I will joy no more.
my sweet love?
Forget, forgive; conclude and be agreed;
Exeunt
twenty years, and yet I am bewitched with the
Let me have audience for a word or two:
The hours come back! that did I never hear.
No, master; the hobby-horse is but a colt, and your
Join with the traitor, and they jointly swear
the Count Palatine; he is every man in no man; if a
No common wind, no customed event,
Frighted, and anger'd worse: go bid my woman
All that is won and lost: give me a kiss;
fashion, yours is worth ten on 't.
To whom all sores lay siege, can bear great fortune,
Good Master Fenton, come not to my child.
But since your ladyship is not at leisure,
say 'There were wit in this head, an 'twould out;'
Yea, brother of Clarence, are thou here too?
Which I gave him for cordial, she is served
Exit CINNA
HERMIONE swoons
For debt that bankrupt sleep doth sorrow owe:
But I in danger for the breach of law.
Her words do show her wit incomparable;
Who, weak with age, cannot support myself:
I say 'tis copper: darest thou be as good as thy word now?
This is to horse. Adieu, noble Agrippa.
That high All-Seer that I dallied with
The vines of France and milk of Burgundy
pitiful goers-between be called to the world's end
Where are the evidence that do accuse me?
The thought of my revenges that way
Of Harry Percy and the Prince of Wales.
That's the least fear; for, by the semblance
A buzzing of a separation
Enter TIMON, ALCIBIADES, and Lords,  and c
Hermione was not so much wrinkled, nothing
Are sanctified and holy traitors to you.
sinews, or else there be liars. Hector have a great
see most bravely: I'll tell you them all by their
Which craves the instant use.
That they have overborne their continents:
Some of my shame; if you will know of me
A Norman.
Go to, sweet queen, to go:--commends himself most
impudent, embossed rascal, if there were anything in
Horns.
The certainty of this hard life; aye hopeless
And both like serpents are, who though they feed
But meeting with Salerio by the way,
change garments with this gentleman: though the
And dart not scornful glances from those eyes,
Stand all aloof: but, uncle, draw you near,
SCENE III. Florence. Before the DUKE's palace.
These three lead on this preparation
They knock
of measure sad?
Am starved for meat, giddy for lack of sleep,
The ladies follow her and but one visor remains.
Vouchsafe, divine perfection of a woman,
Which labour'd after him to the mountain's top
Which death or absence soon shall remedy.
To show the world I am a gentleman.
Thou slewest my husband Henry in the Tower,
And loosed his love-shaft smartly from his bow,
A little fire is quickly trodden out;
Not so, my liege: this lodging likes me better,
As he shall smile, Othello shall go mad;
Is't possible?
Then, at the expiration of the year,
Four hundred twenty-six; and Charles the Great
Hearing alarums at our chamber-doors.
devil my master knew she was Margaret; and partly
No, my good lord, for that is not forgot
Sweet Clifford, hear me speak before I die.
Exit
Of any point in't shall not only be
As easily as I do tear his paper.
truth, I can bear them witness; and virtuous; 'tis
Would you, my lord, aught with the general?
For thou mayst see a sunshine and a hail
Thy age confirm'd, proud, subdued, bloody,
Re-enter MARIA
Prevented from a damned enterprise:
That down fell priest and book and book and priest:
And smoke the temple with our sacrifices.
Is the fool sick?
The seeming truth which cunning times put on
Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man.
has no more pity in him than a dog: a Jew would have
Then I, and you, and all of us fell down,
Fie, you confine yourself most unreasonably: come,
Or cloy the hungry edge of appetite
We are for law: he dies; urge it no more,
Note me this, good friend;
Enter MACBETH
foolish ear.
Direct you to the best!
I mean to prove this lady's courtesy.
I would, while it was smiling in my face,
Welcome, Sir Diomed! here is the lady
year, though Hero had turned nun, if it had not been
Is Decius Brutus and Trebonius there?
Ay, what else? and but I be deceived
Shall I teach you to know?
For happy wife, a most distressed widow;
Why, saw you any thing more wonderful?
faith, at the latter end of a sea-coal fire.
a smack o' the contrary. If ever thou be'st bound
I see thee yet, in form as palpable
Not fearing death, nor shrinking for distress,
You have work'd for me; there's payment for you: hence!
For my confections? Having thus far proceeded,--
I'll be hanged first: thou art deceived in me,
Canst thou demise to any child of mine?
Shall daub her lips with her own children's blood;
O well a day, Lady, if he be not drawn now! we
And leave out thee? stay, dog, for thou shalt hear me.
Mischance unto my state by Suffolk's means:
She creeps:
Now, by my modesty, a goodly broker!
SCENE I. The forest.
The man from Sicyon,--is there such an one?
sparks and lustrous, a word, good metals: you shall
Would all were well! but that will never be
the service, and the tied! Why, man, if the river
His flight was madness: when our actions do not,
Where love's strong passion is impress'd in youth:
No! why?  When he that is my husband now
Run back and bite, because he was withheld;
Must gently be preserved, cherish'd, and kept:
And so may I, blind fortune leading me,
Exeunt
Not pay thee.
Nor nothing in your letters writ of her?
Spring crestless yeomen from so deep a root?
By thee was punched full of deadly holes
bonnet: then, if ever thou darest acknowledge it, I
now in as low an ebb as the foot of the ladder
Which in his death were perfect.
But in my bosom shall she never come,
How came you, Cassio, by that handkerchief
The lowest and most dejected thing of fortune,
But half my lay thoughts in him, some of these
notwithstanding, I fear not my ring.
And Henry born at Windsor lose all:
flayed already.
And ripen justice in this commonweal:
Than for that angel knowledge you can say,
The hand of death hath raught him.
And, like the devil, from his very arm
Upon our sides it never shall be broken.
Spent more in her defence. But, worthy Hector,
Exeunt all but HASTINGS, RATCLIFF, and LOVEL
Have given you here a third of mine own life,
[To the Soothsayer]  The ides of March are come.
man; but, I'll warrant you, when I say so, she looks
already made thee butter. But tell me, Jack, whose
Here, here, here's an excellent place; here we may
And lowly words were ransom for their fault.
Virtue he had, deserving to command:
Not that I fear to stay, but love to go
SONG.
Hold you still, I say;
Thou art a murderer.
your guard; for your opposite hath in him what
What says Lord Warwick? shall we after them?
Than can our reasons. There's no man in the world
With message unto princely Pericles;
Shall happily make thee there a joyful bride.
Than I do at this hour joy o'er myself.
for any lady in Britain. If she went before others
That honourable day shall ne'er be seen.
Anon I'll give thee more instructions.
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!
As you think fit to furnish me to-morrow?
Art thou gone too? all comfort go with thee!
Hope I may choose, sir.
And what's a fever but a fit of madness?
mere want of gold, and the falling-from of his
Ordain'd our laws, whose use the sword of Caesar
I wonder if Titania be awaked;
A good persuasion: therefore, hear me, Hermia.
Not that I think you did not love your father;
Give me a torch: I am not for this ambling;
And, would you represent our queen aright,
was no less than his. If then that friend demand
My blemishes in them, and so still think of
skin hangs about me like an like an old lady's loose
see a rose; and she were a rose indeed, if she had but--
Enter QUEEN MARGARET, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND, PRINCE EDWARD, and Soldiers
Who wear our health but sickly in his life,
SCENE III. OLIVIA's garden.
First he denied you had in him no right.
The ireful bastard Orleans, that drew blood
Do their best office, if they can but stay you
Why not, my lord? If then they chanced to slack you,
God-a-mercy, that thou wilt believe me; but a
What, John! What, Robert!
So that, betwixt their tides and low names,
As you shall prove us, praise us.
I think no usurer but has a fool to his servant: my
If good King Pericles be.
Give me your hands, if we be friends,
Remaining in the coffer of her friends,
What's the matter?
That slew the Sophy and a Persian prince
Who doth he gallop withal?
mine only son, and heir to the lands of me, Signior Vincentio.
[Aside]  If a talent be a claw, look how he claws
Deliver up the crown, and to take mercy
Courage to make 's love kno wn?
Whither the queen intends. Forward; away!
I am settled, and bend up
But come, I'll tell thee all my whole device
Yet my good will is great, though the gift small.
No, I will not cast away my physic but on those that
look about you: security gives way to conspiracy.
Ne'er turns the key to the poor.
Like peasant foot-boys do they keep the walls
Go, sirs, take the basket again on your shoulders:
O, attend, my daughter:
The base is right; 'tis the base knave that jars.
To that I'll speak, to that I'll sigh and weep:
I do not know dat
Hath done you both this cursed injury.
And can you, by no drift of circumstance,
We are glad the Dauphin is so pleasant with us;
With that she sighed as she stood,
rest so laughed, that it passed.
The strain of strutting chanticleer
kindness to his horse, buttered his hay.
O Antony! O thou Arabian bird!
your worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?
His name! as if I knew not his name: I have brought
which now shall die in oblivion and thou return
Let me embrace too. 'O heart,' as the goodly saying is,
I think it lacks of twelve.
Then hadst thou had an excellent head of hair.
My fate cries out,
Above the clouds, as high as heaven itself?
How sweetly you do minister to love,
Receive thy lance; and God defend the right!
Which, but three glasses since, we gave out split--
Or shall I come to you at evening mass?
We are but plain fellows, sir.
You perceive my mind?
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
Thou wilt not utter what thou dost not know;
This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
Till of this flat a mountain you have made,
SCENE V. The Tower of London.
To grace it with your sorrows: bid that welcome
[Reads]  'With a small compassed cape:'
Not as a groom: there's some of ye, I see,
To Tubal and to Chus, his countrymen,
He were much goodlier: is't not a handsome gentleman?
Wilt thou not stoop? Now cursed be the time
Not I.
Ere they have done their mischief. Where's thy drum?
Vincetino come of Bentivolii.
Exit
Have thews and limbs like to their ancestors;
Exit an Attendant
That play'd on her ripe lip, seem'd not to know
And younger hearings are quite ravished;
Than to work any. Will you rhyme upon't,
And also, I think, thou art not ignorant
When those that gave the thane of Cawdor to me
Why, what is Tybalt?
A dedicated beggar to the air,
To oppose your cunning. You're meek and
royal, if thou darest not stand for ten shillings.
A high hope for a low heaven: God grant us patience!
this can sack and drinking do. A murrain on
To spoil the city and your royal court.
Then in my pocket; which directed him
Kate, to conquer the kingdom as to speak so much
He shall live a man forbid:
By this our mother is forever shamed.
By sight of these our baleful enemies.
My cousin means Signior Benedick of Padua.
Where, how, how oft, how long ago, and when
therefore, if thou art moved, thou runn'st away.
Now will I hence to seek my lovely Moor,
And not have cut him off. Some one hath set you on:
And by those claim their greatness, not by blood.
Because till now we never saw your face:
Our men be vanquish'd ere they do resist,
Postures beyond brief nature, for condition,
A friend! what friend? your name, I pray you, friend?
But how should this man, that makes
That hold their honours in a wary distance,
Let what is meet be said it must be meet,
To think but nobly of my grandmother:
By living low, where fortune cannot hurt me,
Enter ISABELLA
A mother's curse, on her revolting son.
You should be satisfied.
And join'd with Charles, the rightful King of France.'
a Cressida to this Troilus.
a copper nose.
My title's good, and better far than his.
Or else be impudently negative,
From the inward of thee? One, but painted thus,
begged. I have your alms: adieu.
So fitly? Go, bid all my friends again,
A load would sink a navy, too much honour:
A little cloth.
encounter Tybalt?
So shall his father's wrongs be recompensed.
report you.
Environed with all these hideous fears?
lords, and gentlemen, with their coaches, I warrant
The emptier ever dancing in the air,
Neither of these are so bad as thou art,
And take the great-grown traitor unawares:
Than he appears by speech: this is unwonted
Therefore in fierce tempest is he coming,
For such is a friend now; treacherous man!
That have by marriage made thy daughter mine,
And let confusion live! Plagues, incident to men,
That will I.
Come, I will have thee; but, by this light, I take
But, so it is, it is not. Was this taken
Truly, thou art damned like an ill-roasted egg, all
Let us survey the vantage of the field
Such a house broke!
Or had he 'scaped, methinks we should have heard
Exit an Attendant
Blush, Blush, thou lump of foul deformity;
Strange dream, that gives a dead man leave
Experience, manhood, honour, ne'er before
Faith, sir, if you had told as many lies in his
Thou mayst be valiant in a better cause;
Royally!
I humbly thank you.
That he should, for a foreign purse, so sell
Yes, I know thee to be Signior Lucentio.
Not so:
Nature's above art in that respect. There's your
Our father's love is to the bastard Edmund
But creep in crannies when he hides his beams.
Were nothing prince-like; for he did provoke me
Of his own doors being shut against his entrance.
Discovering himself
write upon't, read it, afterwards seal it, and again
Moe things like men! Eat, Timon, and abhor them.
myself. I pray you, tell Benedick of it, and hear
There is no truth at all i' the oracle:
vanity. You are thought here to be the most
But gives all gaze and bent of amorous view
And shall be absent. Wend you with this letter:
My face is but a moon, and clouded too.
To see the wonders of the world abroad,
I was, fair madam.
Till the injurious Romans did extort
With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.
With some few bands of chosen soldiers,
A sceptre shall it have, have I a soul,
Led on by heaven, and crown'd with joy at last:
Than those for preservation cased, or shame--
Ha! I like not that.
We please them not by land.
Enter BENEDICK
Shall be as welcome to the ears of Brutus
What would you with the princess?
Are you a god? would you create me new?
Till I have thank'd you: when dinner's done,
Claudio, walking in a thick-pleached alley in mine
But this denoted a foregone conclusion:
Beseeching thee, if with they will it stands
Tush, fear not, man; we'll tip thy horns with gold
Like an unseasonable stormy day,
Let me hear a staff, a stanze, a verse; lege, domine.
very day receives letters of strange tenor;
pitiful-hearted Titan, that melted at the sweet tale
'Thou unpossessing bastard! dost thou think,
I'll visit you.
Some tricks, some quillets, how to cheat the devil.
Hath yet the deputy sent my brother's pardon?
Or shall we bite our tongues, and in dumb shows
always factionary on the party of your general.
is so admired?
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
quarrel on the seventh cause?
She was the daughter of a king:
bite my thumb, sir.
Biron, they will shame us: let them not approach.
Save how to gall and pinch this Bolingbroke:
His face still combating with tears and smiles,
And look thou meet me ere the first cock crow.
That here and there his fury had committed.
I think there is not half a kiss to choose
O, your desert speaks loud; and I should wrong it,
more and leave this young man in pawn till I bring it you.
To cast thee up again. What may this mean,
Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse
In faith, I will. Let me peruse this face.
Jesus bless us!
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Which tired majesty did make thee offer,
That excellent complexion, which did steal
Enter Pirates
Enter, several of both houses, who join the fray; then enter Citizens, with clubs
This earth shall have a feeling and these stones
Many years of happy days befal
Friends should associate friends in grief and woe:
So please your lordship to accept our duty.
with her needle: an admirable musician: O! she
I cannot sing: I'll weep, and word it with thee;
Bring forth these men.
this youth, I blame ye not:
DON
After your thoughts, straight back again to France.
For others' uses. Yet, 'tis the plague of great ones;
To say the truth, this fact was infamous
Yet wild, the people's hearts brimful of fear,
a harmless fairy, has done little better than
Ay, my good lord; your royal preparation
In such a place, such sum or sums as are
open your chaps again.
Pitchers have ears.
We lack'd your counsel and your help tonight.
And out of doubt you do me now more wrong
Have ever come too short of my desires,
Nay, but hear me.
And do you now cull out a holiday?
again. The king is coming.
Young Adam Cupid, he that shot so trim,
And will as tenderly be led by the nose
My gracious lord, return to Killingworth,
Sets all on hazard: and hither am I come
O my poor father!
What, is the man lunatic?
Will cut their passage through the force of France,
His promises fly so beyond his state
without warning.
Petruchio, go thy ways; the field is won.
Prick'd on by public wrongs sustain'd in France,
So much for Nestor.
For daring to affy a mighty lord
Brothers, you muse what chat we two have had.
And twice by awkward wind from England's bank
Against the part I come with; so I'll die
'Tis your noblest course.
head a gilt copper crown.
fairly in jest.
The confirmation of my promised gift,
thou wilt. But, Francis!
When every grief is entertain'd that's offer'd,
the military discipline; that is the point.
My ingenious instrument!
Enter a Post
Pare thy nails, dad;
how can that be true love which is falsely
had rather go with sir priest than sir knight: I
I cannot choose but laugh, to think how she tickled
May call it back again. Well, believe this,
The thing he means to kill more excellently.
Young Bertram.
He could have temporized.
And cry 'Content' to that which grieves my heart,
Exeunt all but BASTARD
Fie, fie! they are not to be named, my lord,
Go we to him.
My precious queen, forbear;
To stale with ordinary oaths my love
With gentle breath, calm look, knees humbly bow'd,
Welcome, dear madam.
That leads him to these places: were I his lady,
Out of the bowels of the harmless earth,
you should know my daughter by her garments?
When noble Pericles shall demand his child?
itself ten, which is a goodly increase; and the
Sir boy, I'll whip you from your foining fence;
What, think you much to pay two thousand crowns,
This is well; he has made us his vlouting-stog. I
Go before, nurse: commend me to thy lady;
opened, and you find so much blood in his liver as
And corresponsive and fulfilling bolts,
Varro's
Show me how, good father.
Exit Servant
No, my lord, not I.
He is a Roman; no more kin to me
Be not found here; hence, with your little ones.
The sort to fight with Hector: among ourselves
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD
Did you yet ever see Baptista's daughter?
Indies, and I will trade to them both. Go bear thou
Royal sir,
What a sigh is there! The heart is sorely charged.
I am Achilles.
need to be; virtuous enough; swore little; diced not
From stubborn Turks and Tartars, never train'd
My too much changed son. Go, some of you,
When Julius Caesar, whose remembrance yet
What's the matter.
Made mine eyes water; but more merry tears
I know your virtue hath a licence in't,
And wear my dagger with the braver grace,
How God and good men hate so foul a liar.
Exit
A day will come when York shall claim his own;
Speak, prince of Ithaca; and be't of less expect
That may with foul intrusion enter in
His hair uprear'd, his nostrils stretched with struggling;
We shall entreat you to abide here till he come and
And it in you more dreadful would have seem'd
Hail!
Ariel plays the tune on a tabour and pipe
Carve for himself; for on his choice depends
why then make sport at me; then let me be your jest;
The mettle of your pasture; let us swear
To have her, or no. Go; say the woman told me so.
How now! are you sadder than you were before? How
Exit First Servant
No word like 'pardon' for kings' mouths so meet.
tell me who it is.
That satiate yet unsatisfied desire, that tub
What, go you toward the Tower?
He had two sons: if this be worth your hearing,
house between ten and eleven.
Please it your grace lead on?
not to dog him: they say he keeps a Trojan
Ha, ha!
there is no slander in an allowed fool, though he do
I have one heart, one bosom and one truth,
Thou and thy meaner fellows your last service
Yet is the kindness but particular;
That ever Hector and Achilles meet;
Nay, that's certain.
Enter MENENIUS AGRIPPA
Witness my son, now in the shade of death;
Take your time.
sworn that I am no fox; but he will not pass his
Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there
Be content and seek no new,
My lord, not I.
I'll follow, as they say, for reward. He that
You never saw her since she was deformed.
say they are Persian attire: but let them be changed.
There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.
Will you leave me there?
She is dead.
Should lose his birthright by his father's fault,
How ill this taper burns! Ha! who comes here?
Nor never lay his wreathed arms athwart
A pound of that same merchant's flesh is thine:
Or Charles or something weaker masters thee.
But when I call to mind your gracious favours
Whose deaths are yet unrevenged: I prithee,
But set his murdering knife unto the root
Sola! where? where?
To shed obsequious tears upon this trunk.
And three times thrice is nine.
Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that perilous stuff
Sink Rome, and their tongues rot
My doe with the black scut! Let the sky rain
Most strangely.
His dove will prove, his gold will hold,
Wit would be out of fashion.
At the good queen's entreaty.
were not Thersites; for I care not to be the louse
As were a war in expectation.
Alas, sweet aunt, I know not what you mean.
Cause the musicians play me that sad note
One aloof stand sentinel.
As blameful as the executioner?
If not to heaven, then hand in hand to hell.
Give me thy hand.
It warms the very sickness in my heart,
Exit
to dine and sup with water and bran; I dare not for
By heaven, I'll hate him everlastingly
Frozen almost to death, how he did lap me
hear me call Margaret Hero, hear Margaret term me
And drive towards Dover, friend, where thou shalt meet
I prophesied France will be lost ere long.
By my so potent art. But this rough magic
Cannot my body nor blood-sacrifice
Hasten his musters and conduct his powers:
let me bate,-but not like me--yet long'st,
And so shall mine, before you touch the meat.
Yes Shylock, I will seal unto this bond.
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
Is stol'n away to Rome; hath ta'en no leave;
And Jove, for your love, would infringe an oath.
do not like the fashion of your garments: you will
I have remember'd me, thou's hear our counsel.
There is no appearance of fancy in him, unless it be
No, not to lose it all, as thou hast done:
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
Sure, I shall never marry like my sisters,
But yesterday the word of Caesar might
That all the court may echo with the noise.
And smelt so? pah!
SCENE IX. Another part of the plain.
Not worshipp'd with a waxen epitaph.
Thou speak'st as if I would deny my name.
Under the countenance and confederacy
That book in many's eyes doth share the glory,
Come hither to me, Master Elbow; come hither, Master
Now Antony must leave her utterly.
And Adam was a gardener.
By this light, a most perfidious and drunken
And in a moment makes them desolate.
And gave him graceful posture.
And never noted in him any study,
I did not see you; welcome, gentle signior;
That John may stand, then Arthur needs must fall;
Yea, that she did: but yet, for all that, an if she
Leave hollaing, man: here.
Which I denying, they fell sick and died;
Is partly to behold my lady's face;
The cords, the ladder, or the hangman rather?
And that high royalty was ne'er pluck'd off,
Brother, thou shalt to London presently,
And yours, close fighting ere I did approach:
It were lost sorrow to wail one that's lost.
comondy a Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick?
We would not seek a battle, as we are;
On the poor souls for whom this hungry war
That I might strive to kill it with a groan.
Enter ANGELO
'Slight, will you make an ass o' me?
Exeunt
O, my dear Orlando, how it grieves me to see thee
Whose private with me of the Dauphin's love
Where is he?
how art thou fishified! Now is he for the numbers
I take it, she that carries up the train
Fits a dull fighter and a keen guest.
Madam, madam,--
When will this fearful slumber have an end?
That he did owe him: and I know, my lord,
For 'tis a cause that hath no mean dependance
Our woes into the air; our eyes do weep,
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
Fall fellowly drops. The charm dissolves apace,
BISHOP
Shall stop or spur me. Have I done well?
And replant Henry in his former state.
You praise yourself
have many pocky corses now-a-days, that will scarce
and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
Judas Maccabaeus; this swain, because of his great
How much unlook'd for is this expedition!
Commit'st thy anointed body to the cure
Even to his inches, and with private soul
Richard Plantagenet, my lord, will come:
is, that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers
I tore it from the traitor's bosom, king;
As is the night before some festival
Counsel me, Tranio, for I know thou canst;
And by a stranger!--No, he hath enjoyed her:
Is the king's hand and tongue; and who dare speak
him, niece: look you how his sword is bloodied, and
Here I am, thou particular fellow.
Where senators shall mingle tears with smiles,
You speak as if that I had slain my cousins.
No place, indeed, should murder sanctuarize;
Hold, worthy lady, hold:
The Grecians' cause.
His heart and hand both open and both free;
I'll charm the air to give a sound,
Big of this gentleman our theme, deceased
How now, Trojan!
I part you. The falcon as the tercel, for all the
To the monument!
The causes of their death appear, unto
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Exeter, so will I.
What cause, do you think, I have to swoon?
Will I with wine and wassail so convince
Princes, enough, so please you.
Alas, poor shepherd!
Into her scornful eyes! Infect her beauty,
He being her pupil, to become her tutor.
When I have deck'd the sea with drops full salt,
Say, Wolsey, that once trod the ways of glory,
Villany, villany, villany!
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  He has a cloud in 's face.
Leave unsaluted: sink, my knee, i' the earth;
I cannot make you what amends I would,
Where Dowsabel did claim me for her husband:
Relish a truth like us, inform yourselves
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
I'll tell thee what befell me on a day
Gave Hector a gift,--
prince his master will be here to-night.
Then let thy love be younger than thyself,
Madam, not yet: I go to take my stand,
Why, here's he that was wont to thwack our general,
But go we in, I pray thee, Jessica,
Then should you be nothing but musical for you are
If this be known to you and your allowance,
I'd change my sex to be companion with them,
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and Messenger
Display'd so saucily against your highness,--
Vines and clustering bunches growing,
The presence of a king engenders love
I prithee, who doth he trot withal?
Unless the deed go with it; from this moment
By day and night he wrongs me; every hour
counterfeitly; that is, sir, I will counterfeit the
New horrors come upon him,
Haste there before us: I constantly do think--
As well as one so great and so forlorn
To wipe out our ingratitude with loves
Pardon, pardon!
Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort
Let them come in.
I know we shall have revelling to-night:
A thing like death to chide away this shame,
Will you go hunt, my lord?
three hits: he hath laid on twelve for nine; and it
To see how fortune is disposed to us;
The spirit of deep prophecy she hath,
Come forth.
To cry to the sea that roar'd to us, to sigh
Their bodies, even to loathing; for they so stunk,
My name is Mary, sir.
For no ill will I bear you.
The greatness of his person.
A sign of dignity, a garish flag,
I could not send it,--here it is again,--
lovers: seldom but that pity begets you a good
that I dropped to betray him: he does smile his
Of no more soul nor fitness for the world
out!' that any madness I ever yet beheld seemed but
cried in the top of mine--an excellent play, well
Exeunt REIGNIER and MARGARET
fool with child,--a dumb innocent, that could not
I must not look to have; but, in their stead,
The loathness to depart would grow. Adieu!
solemness out o' door. and go along with us.
Ay, 'tis strong, and it does indifferent well in a
Never went with his forces into France
Re-enter KING LEAR with GLOUCESTER
To avoid the carping censures of the world.
I do remember in this shepherd boy
Kissing her
It pleaseth you, my royal father, to express
Pardon me, wife. Henceforth do what thou wilt;
Sir, as I have a soul, she is an angel;
Julia, farewell!
This shows a sound affection.
His service and his counsel.
Exeunt
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
He flouted us downright.
That art thyself a man?
Come between us, good Benvolio; my wits faint.
I will not budge for no man's pleasure, I.
For herein Fortune shows herself more kind
This, as you say, suggested
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him:
What name, sir?
I am too bold, 'tis not to me she speaks:
Pardon me, lords, 'tis the first time that ever
O, my oblivion is a very Antony,
Is sad to think upon his merchandise.
She dreams of him that has forgot her love;
Well, is this captain in the duke of Florence's camp?
He's gone, but his wife's kill'd.
His wonted sleep under a fresh tree's shade,
Who, every word by all my wit being scann'd,
As cannons overcharged with double cracks, so they
How! the duke in council!
wings to follow it! Come, and be true.
Lest we remember still that we have none.
His sword e'en like a dancer; while I struck
Fare you well.
dangerous thing; and every man that means to live
Had been incorporate. So we grow together,
And you that do abet him in this kind
Come, tell me whose it was.
Albeit he comes on angry purpose now;
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
To this most patient, sweet and virtuous wife:
ACT V
With this same very iron to burn them out.
Let us into the city presently
and by my friends, I am abused: so that,
O weary reckoning!
Whiles yet the dew's on ground, gather those flowers;
The Cardinal Pandulph is within at rest,
Enter PISTOL, Hostess, NYM, BARDOLPH, and Boy
She has robb'd me of my sword.
Anchors on Isabel: Heaven in my mouth,
I thought the king had more affected the Duke of
the Goodwins, I think they call the place; a very
thou follow him, thou must needs wear my coxcomb.
To you they have show'd some truth.
When shall we come to the top of that same hill?
But for supporting robbers, shall we now
Nor shall not be the last; like silly beggars
This Edmund, in the reign of Bolingbroke,
By losing of our prayers.
No humble suitors press to speak for right,
He must not live to trumpet forth my infamy,
I have told my neighbour how you have been solicited
service, look you, sir, he bid me knock him and rap
If thou receive me for thy warlike mate.
Of this most dreadful preparation,
Who will of thy arrival be full joyous.
left pap. In faith, secrets!
Give me a living reason she's disloyal.
Alarum. Hector and Ajax fight
To show itself but pride, for supple knees
your daughter.
Fly to the court of England and unfold
she'll be ashamed.
And 'tis but wisdom to make strong against him:
Go with me to a notary, seal me there
Is wander'd forth, in care to seek me out
Yet be content.
When but in all I was six thousand strong
To plant and o'erwhelm custom. Let me pass
tinkers at this time of night? Do ye make an
As Pompey was, am I compell'd to set
An alarum: excursions. Enter FASTOLFE and a Captain
Enter a Messenger
excessive grief the enemy to the living.
The holding every man shall bear as loud
state, which since his coming forth is thought
Then, if he lose, he makes a swan-like end,
mother: thus when I shun Scylla, your father, I
[Aside] It goes on, I see,
horns, Master Brook: and, Master Brook, he hath
Did you find me in yourself, sir? or were you
Gentle Mercutio, put thy rapier up.
Roderigo!
But thine doth fry.
nominate tender.
How merited to be so; since he came,
I pray you, sirs, lie in my tent and sleep;
me to the gaol.
Whose glorious deeds, but in these fields of late,
Thoughts high for one so tender, cleft the heart
And God forbid a shallow scratch should drive
Been both at Delphos, and from thence have brought
In him, a royal prince, and many moe
this applause!
No, my good lord; I have sworn to stay with you:
tell-tale nor no breed-bate: his worst fault is,
What, goodman boy! I say, he shall: go to;
tell us when we meet at supper: how thirty, at
Princely in both.
When are you married, madam?
And Valentine I'll hold an enemy,
To use it for my time: I am a brother
cuffs in the question.
Aunchient Pistol, I do partly understand your meaning.
tithing, and stock- punished, and imprisoned; who
The which he hath detain'd for lewd employments,
Oft expectation fails and most oft there
Upon himself.
If judgement lie in them, then so do we,
Enter a Servingman
[Aside to SIMPLE]  I am glad he is so quiet: if he
Vailing her high-top lower than her ribs
Deep night, dark night, the silent of the night,
Am I the first that have been perjured so?
Hath the count all this intelligence?
Who in a moment even with the earth
Good day, sir.
To put him quite beside his patience.
Against the wind a mile! You souls of geese,
Hath raised in Gallia have arrived our coast
And, after, meet you sooner than you would.
The hope of Rome; for so he bade me say;
A clip-wing'd griffin and a moulten raven,
That answer might have become Apemantus.
better determine.
on thee, rather than have these off.
And then begin again, and stop again,
Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM
Enter, from the cave, BELARIUS; GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS following
In thunder and in earthquake, like a Jove,
In, fellow, there, into the hovel: keep thee warm.
By him for whom these shames ye underwent?
The effect of my intent is to cross theirs:
In Jove's own book, like an unnatural dam
of Leda. O omnipotent Love! how near the god drew
But dare all imminence that gods and men
Come, let's away; the strangers all are gone.
Darkness and devils!
So study evermore is overshot:
Turning his face, he put his hand behind him,
No, not to-night.
I knew him tyrannous; and tyrants' fears
'Item: She hath no teeth.'
Any man that can write may answer a letter.
He is a man; I'll love him as my brother:
That I may prompt them: and of such as have,
God keep you from them, and from such false friends!
Acquire too high a fame when him we serve's away.
Unquestion'd welcome and undoubted blest.
Exit SALISBURY
While we were interchanging thrusts and blows,
Well, proceed.
Yea, with a bridegroom's fresh alacrity,
Now, mild may be thy life!
Cry, 'havoc!' kings; back to the stained field,
Who's gone this morning?
'What my great-grandfather and his grandsire got
Let me not think on't--Frailty, thy name is woman!--
Was borne so like a soldier, that thy cheek
our plot is a good plot as ever was laid; our
Think you I am no stronger than my sex,
To take my life. Two of these fellows you
With his new bride and England's dear-bought queen,
More near my life, I fear,--with my weak wit,
Out of this silence yet I pick'd a welcome;
before ever he saw those pancakes or that mustard.
Not seen of late? Grant, heavens, that which I fear
Nay, I will consent to act any villany against him,
You take my house when you do take the prop
With this, we charged again: but, out, alas!
The rather for I have some sport in hand
But end it by some means for Imogen.
Dry sorrow drinks our blood. Adieu, adieu!
But who comes with our brother Marcus here?
They fear us not, but issue forth their city.
Then hear me, gracious sovereign, and you peers,
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical, tragical-
Lulla, lulla, lullaby, lulla, lulla, lullaby:
good Aliena!
And I:
True sword to sword, I'll potch at him some way
A goodly house: the feast smells well; but I
I know not which pleases me better, that my husband
Now, if the help of Norfolk and myself,
Here comes one.
To this last costly treaty, the interview,
Now leaves him.
The archbishopric of Toledo, this is purposed.
A barren detested vale, you see it is;
abruption? What too curious dreg espies my sweet
backside the town.
I ever saw so noble.
That almost freezes up the heat of life:
Came not my friend nor I.
Ghost unlaid forbear thee!
With whom the father liking took,
hearer: that great baby you see there is not yet
Come hither, William; hold up your head; come.
So do I his.
show much like to madness: pray heaven his wisdom be
I know not.
With all my heart, and think me honoured
Good duke, receive thy daughter
The untuned and jarring senses, O, wind up
And it I will have, or I will have none.
Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber:
That's a lie in thy throat. I charge you in his
What wisdom stirs amongst you? Come, sir, now
SCENE V. A room in the Garter Inn.
her look, or any woman else.
SCENE II. The same.
that fretted in their own grease: think of that,--a
stoup of liquor.
Give rest to the minds of others, such as he
Make space enough between you.
so he that in this action contrives against his own
But, by great Mars, the captain of us all,
The posterior of the day, most generous sir, is
My arms such eel-skins stuff'd, my face so thin
Never so little show of love to her,
That you know well: something it is I would,
Enter ARTHUR, on the walls
There shouldst thou find one heinous article,
What were I best to say? her father's brother
In speed to Padua: see thou render this
Boldness comes to me now, and brings me heart.
Why?
O, such another sleep, that I might see
Me shall you find ready and willing
Sometime in Greece,--
Have by your wisdom been this day acquitted
But I'll endeavour deeds to match these words,
Yet am I noble as the adversary
Deep malice makes too deep incision;
Can vengeance be pursued further than death?
How now, foolish rheum!
A woman's general; what should we fear?
here,--this, who, like a block, hath denied my
Made tame and most familiar to my nature,
It is my only suit;
I'll canvass thee in thy broad cardinal's hat,
With news the time's with labour, and throes forth,
What I believe I'll wail,
liking; I shall be out of heart shortly, and then I
Than honesty to honesty engaged,
Tut, Lucius, this was but a deed of charity
And he that will not fight for such a hope.
The state or fortune fall into my keeping,
Art thou so hasty? I have stay'd for thee,
The quarrel is between our masters and us their men.
To love the Moor.
I sent him from the mart. See, here he comes.
the shot here; here's no scoring but upon the pate.
I beg the ancient privilege of Athens,
Have hired me to undermine the duchess
Hautboys. Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, and takes his state
the Welsh priest and Caius the French doctor.
Either this is the envy in you, folly, or mistaking:
There's blood on thy face.
Most hungerly on your sight.
To crown my thoughts with acts, be it thought and done:
And look you get a prayer-book in your hand,
Seems to flow from him! How, i' the name of thrift,
To choose from forth the royal blood of France,
comprehend:
To that owes it, namely this young prince:
Pluck the young sucking cubs from the she-bear,
Of gleaning all the land's wealth into one,
I found a friend, and sure as death I swore
Opinion shall be surgeon to my hurt
A halter'd neck which does the hangman thank
And am her knight by proof.
men, as long as I have an eye to make difference of
a many merry men with him; and there they live like
To demonstrate the life of such a battle
A' did in some sort, indeed, handle women; but then
Where this is question'd send our letters, with
No, say'st me so, friend? What countryman?
By gar, me vill kill de priest; for he speak for a
What I can do can do no hurt to try,
I beseech you, pardon me, my lord, if I be mistaken;
Yet thou liest in the bleak air: come, I will bear
Ay, sir, and wherefore; for they say every why hath
To fright the animals and to kill them up
Ye shall, my Lord.
Nor must not then be yielded to in this.
With such deep contempt made I him king for this?
Grow in the veins of actions highest rear'd,
To give up willingly that noble title
I thank your ladyship; well, good madam.
Exeunt all but DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and MENAS
For exile hath more terror in his look,
Become the forest better than the town?
Speak, Rome's dear friend, as erst our ancestor,
Enter three soldiers, JOHN BATES, ALEXANDER COURT, and MICHAEL WILLIAMS
O, that thou wouldst as well afford a grave
To prey on nothing that doth seem as dead:
it: if I do it, let the audience look to their
Runs his erring pilgrimage,
O Phebe, Phebe, Phebe!
thank him, makes no stranger of me; we are familiar at first.
She is dead, belike?
Your discontenting father strive to qualify
That must needs be sport alone;
It is as easy to count atomies as to resolve the
Are punish'd with: the king must take it ill,
You use her well: the world may laugh again;
A novice of this place and the fair sister
Because that, like a Jack, thou keep'st the stroke
A little joy enjoys the queen thereof;
I see them not with my old eyes: what are they?
Madam, you'll find it so. You wrong your virtues
shoeing-horn in a chain, hanging at his brother's
O, save me, Hubert, save me! my eyes are out
Kneeling before this ruin of sweet life,
But truer stars did govern Proteus' birth
I think, Camillo?
Well, 'tis not so, my lord high constable;
This third, dull lead, with warning all as blunt,
My queen, my life, my wife! O Imogen,
Now, where's your master'?
Would thus have wrought you,--for the stone is mine--
His own conceiving.--Hark, the game is roused!
Holding out gold that's by the touchstone tried;
Exit
Then, if you will elect by my advice,
Go you before, and I will follow you.
How now! what do you here alone?
When the battle's lost and won.
withal, and defy the surgeon?
pardonner! Je suis gentilhomme de bonne maison:
This day of shame, oppression, perjury.
[Reads]
This fortification, gentlemen, shall we see't?
and my good friend Petruchio! How do you all at Verona?
Kneel in the streets and beg for grace in vain.
That thou with licence of free foot hast caught,
Can chase away the first-conceived sound?
At Worcester must his body be interr'd;
there were wealth enough for the purchase, or merit
There is another comfort than this world,
Of this fair couple, meets he on the way
Where their appointment we may best discover,
I thank you for your pains and courtesy.
Which in a set hand fairly is engross'd,
Going to find a bare-foot brother out
My foot shall fight with all the strength thou hast;
To answer this your charge?
But curse the cause I cannot aid the man.
coroners of that age found it was 'Hero of Sestos.'
Strikes life into my speech and shows much more
and fight for bitten apples; that no audience, but
Why, we are still handling our ewes, and their
Even as men wrecked upon a sand, that look to be
Unseen, inquisitive, confounds himself:
Flying between the cold moon and the earth,
Were 't not for laughing, I should pity him.
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud death,
Thou shouldst be colour'd thus. You married ones,
need none, so long as I live.
Traffic's thy god; and thy god confound thee!
Your spirits shine through you. Within this hour at most
My lord, I know a discontented gentleman,
Your grandfather of famous memory, an't please your
What's that?
matters, but with awl. I am, indeed, sir, a surgeon
I should not need, if you were gentle Brutus.
And here, to do you service, am become
To thrust the lie unto him.
And would afford my speechless vizard half.
liberal-conceited carriages; that's the French bet
Uninhabitable and almost inaccessible,--
For I had then laid wormwood to my dug,
And make a sop of all this solid globe:
[Aside]  Shall I hear more, or shall I speak at this?
Most worthy brother England; fairly met:
Ay, by my troth, the case may be amended.
Who in this kind of merry fooling am nothing
There's not a whittle in the unruly camp
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH and the DUCHESS OF YORK
Him that thou magnifiest with all these titles
And I am proof against their enmity.
Profess myself the winner of her honour,
Retorts to chiding fortune.
What say you, lords? Why, this was quite forgot.
warm them. Now, were not I a little pot and soon
What's the matter, lady?
Great reason that my noble lord be rated
And even for that do I love you the more.
You cannot, sir, take from me any thing that I will
Unmix'd with baser matter: yes, by heaven!
Made wars upon me; and their contestation
To reason most absurd: whose common theme
That English may as French, French Englishmen,
Know you the musicians?
He is a proper man's picture, but, alas, who can
For every trifle are they set upon me;
And spotless shall mine innocence arise,
the weaker vessel, as doublet and hose ought to show
Madam, not now: I am very ill at ease,
Which, unreversed, stands in effectual force--
From whom we do exist, and cease to be;
Her husband, sirrah!
Make deeds ill done! Hadst not thou been by,
And not a tinker nor Christophero Sly.
With thy brave bearing should I be in love,
Thy noble shape is but a form of wax,
And, as he fell, did Romeo turn and fly.
So she does any thing; though I report it,
All murder'd: for within the hollow crown
Here's that, I warrant you, will pay them all.
My honoured lord!
My matter is so rash: there is at hand
This, by the way, I let you understand;
Falls not the axe upon the humbled neck
That memory, the warder of the brain,
She spitteth at him
where to have her.
Help, friends below; let's draw him hither.
The prodigal Christian. Jessica, my girl,
And his and mine loved darling.
COUNTESS
To have one show worse than the king's and his company.
Manifest treason!
I can go home alone.
creatures; their mastiffs are of unmatchable courage.
A shout and flourish
O noble weakness!
How wise, how noble, young, how rarely featured,
Shall marry her at Pentapolis. And now,
No.
heard in Genoa,--
They shall subscribe them for large sums of gold
Of Cappadocia; Philadelphos, king
That do demonstrate thinly.
Batter his skull, or paunch him with a stake,
And by and by my master drew on him;
As I saw it inclined: when was the hour
She hath not seen the change of fourteen years,
And does he think so backwardly of me now,
will; for good things should be praised.
My riches to the earth from whence they came;
Women and fools, break off your conference.
What would You, Desdemona?
Why, then, the champions are prepared, and stay
ACT I
by boy, servant by servant: the tithe of a hair
With no less religion than if thou wert indeed my
With these ill tidings.
And, that thou mayst perceive my fear of this,
This side is Hiems, Winter, this Ver, the Spring;
How dost thou, Charles?
If one should be a prey, how much the better
John Cade of Ashford,
And thus I'll curb her mad and headstrong humour.
they'll have me whipped for speaking true, thou'lt
To sinewy Ajax. I will not praise thy wisdom,
There to give up their power. If you can, pace your wisdom
Do not abuse me.
How these things came about: so shall you hear
boot, can never amend.
what news?
He is my prisoner: if I let him go,
Shall be my winding-sheet. Why faint you, lords?
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say,
'Item: She is curst.'
It is determined, not concluded yet:
Not unconsider'd leave your honour, nor
In sooth, I know not why I am so sad:
Live where their prayers did: and it's come to pass,
In Alexandria: here's the manner of 't:
ANTIPHOLUS
Which his own will shall have desire to drink:
Did she see thee the while, old boy? tell me that.
It is not nor it cannot come to good:
Dogs leap the hatch, and all are fled.
I pardon him, as God shall pardon me.
A proof of strength she could not publish more,
The court's a learning place, and he is one--
Exit
Liar and slave!
But crave! Then I'll turn craver too, and so I
In the large composition of this man?
Foundations fly the wretched; such, I mean,
The king hath sent him, sure: I must dissemble.
by the figure, and such daubery as this is, beyond
With miry slime left on them by a flood?
heavy: ask my Lady Beatrice else; here she comes.
And in this shape when you have brought him thither,
O, if you raise this house against this house,
Whence are you, sir? what may I call your name?
For every cloud engenders not a storm.
My life I never held but as a pawn
Enter MARK ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, IRAS, ALEXAS, with others
It is a sword of Spain, the ice-brook's temper:--
So like you, 'tis the worse. Behold, my lords,
They call me Katharina that do talk of me.
like a porter: and he was in love.
To do what?
Every thing that heard him play,
Ay, with my heart
And stand betwixt two churchmen, good my lord;
That Lucius' banishment was wrongfully,
In what he did profess, well found.
For in the ingrafted love he bears to Caesar--
He has deserved it, were it carbuncled
And did he search for you, and could not find you?
True, true; and now you will be my purgation and let me loose.
believing thee a vessel of too great a burthen. I
If thou again say 'Yes.'
That only have fear'd Caesar: to the ports
Why was my Cressid then so hard to win?
No, by my soul, she was not,
And the compact is firm and true in me.
what news?
Hence, away! now all is well:
Enter KING HENRY VIII and SUFFOLK
Died every day she lived. Fare thee well!
A dear happiness to women: they would else have
Is of that nature that to your huge store
In their gold coats spots you see;
[To SIR NATHANIEL]  O, sir, you have overthrown
Is named, your wars in France: this makes bold mouths:
But minister communication of
You shall be king.
More fearful, is deliver'd.
Why, headstrong liberty is lash'd with woe.
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
manifested effect, I crave but four days' respite;
That he hath used thee.
We'll keep no great ado,--a friend or two;
Come as the gods foresay it: howsoe'er,
Help, masters, help! my master is mad.
Out at mine eyes in tender womanish tears.
is damned.
This is, sir, a doubt
letter:--and she hath the prettiest sententious of
Let me have Hermia's: do you marry him.
Would they speak with me?
Some obscure precedence that hath tofore been sain.
No, good madam, pardon me; indeed, I will not forth.
With this kiss take my blessing: God protect thee!
Caesar's no merchant, to make prize with you
Good faith, good faith, the saying did not hold
my wish shall show me the way to my will.
strong, or so.
I'll know your business, Harry, that I will.
That I might hear thee call great Caesar ass
Ever in fear to kindle your dislike,
That he is bound to? Wife, thou art a fool.
That it will please you
I will continue that I broach'd in jest.
Why stops my lord, shall I not hear my task?
Forty days longer we do respite you;
For no man, sir.
ANTIPHOLUS
Yes, for a score of kingdoms you should wrangle,
I came before you here a man prepared
Or I will beat this method in your sconce.
Fall into the compass of a praemunire,
Let my tears stanch the earth's dry appetite;
Anon, I'm sure, the duke himself in person
recovered the king, and undone me. I have wedded
And, now it is my chance to find thee out,
In your despite, upon your purse? Revenge it.
They know that do accuse me; I know none:
Why seek'st thou then to cover with excuse
And what would you have me to do? 'Tis too late to
Let hell make crook'd my mind to answer it.
We must not rend our subjects from our laws,
Who dares do more is none.
knapped ginger or made her neighbours believe she
Alas, it hath been great pains to you. They do you
Enter an AEdile
That murder'd me: I would forget it fain;
The unowed interest of proud-swelling state.
Of colour, weight, and heat, pour'd all together,
O miserable lady! But, for me,
that are fallible: tomorrow you must die; go to
Like a base pander, hold the chamber-door
The archbishop.
To temper clay. Yea, it is come to this?
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee,
Were he to stand for consul, never would he
Alas, why would you heap these cares on me?
That is too cold in thinking of it now.
And ostentation of despised arms?
From the excess of laughter. Here he comes:
Cleopatra's health to drink.
Ten thousand French have ta'en the sacrament
France spreads his banners in our noiseless land;
To SILVIUS
It is thyself, mine own self's better part,
That any harm should stain so fair a show!
'Tis a strange truth.
Unmasking
you'll give him me. Be true to my lord: if he
Nay, my lord, he called you Jack, and said he would
Edward will always bear himself as king:
Prepare you, generals:
So far be mine, my most redoubted lord,
To aspire unto the crown and reign as king.
His eyes were green as leeks.
Or wilt thou ride? thy horses shall be trapp'd,
Like envious floods o'er-run her lovely face,
Sir, I would speak with you.
Youth's a stuff will not endure.
Exit Widow
But he, poor soul, by your first order died,
are.
Had squared me to thy counsel! then, even now,
His crown shall be the ransom of my friend;
There speak, and strike, brave boys, and take
Shall I Sir Pandarus of Troy become,
after three-pence a bay: if you live to see this
Or not my father's. For I cannot be
[Above]  Titinius is enclosed round about
Shows itself pure; he weeps for what is done.
Here's a knocking indeed! If a
And that so lamely and unfashionable
And drown me with their sweetness. O, come hither,
Peace, ho!
With every several pleasure in the world,
Nay, I assure you, a peace concluded.
No, sir, it does not please me.
Most spend their mouths when what they seem to threaten
Enter LUCIO
women; he was not inclined that way.
Thou wilt not only loose the forfeiture,
Have patience, sir; O, let it not be so!
Bears no impression of the thing it was.
If he may be repeal'd, to try his honour.
Kindness in women, not their beauteous looks,
Good Aaron, give his majesty my hand:
From that great face of war, whose several ranges
What says she, fair one? that the tongues of men
sailor breaks a biscuit.
Strike, you slave; stand, rogue, stand; you neat
you know, Pyramus and Thisby meet by moonlight.
Corrects the ill aspects of planets evil,
I did never know so full a voice issue from so
Which shows me many more; and some I see
I am mightily abused. I should e'en die with pity,
About the mount Misenum.
For, by my father's reverend tomb, I vow
Up to the ears in blood. I am on fire
Fie!
Come, son, away; we may not linger thus.
them with a most Christian-like fear.
Flourish. SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS go up into the Capitol
Flaminius, I have noted thee always wise. Here's to thee.
He could not miss't.
Which is the duke's own person?
Enter ROMEO and BALTHASAR, with a torch, mattock,  and c
Filths savour but themselves. What have you done?
For, ere the ships could meet by twice five leagues,
Enter a Gentleman, with a bloody knife
The barks of trees thou browsed'st; on the Alps
Of sighs, of groans, of sorrow and of teen!
Aumerle is guilty of my true appeal:
Whilst the screech-owl, screeching loud,
of me, he shall never make me such a fool. One woman
Man-enter'd thus, he waxed like a sea,
My son corrupts a well-derived nature
I feel this pin prick. Would I were assured
Give him that parting kiss which I had set
Ay, who doubts that? a will! a wicked will:
All there is thine.
I'll order take my mother shall not hear.
but that they call compliment is like the encounter
Tread on the sand; why, there you quickly sink:
My lord, there needs no such apology:
And cull their flower, Ajax shall cope the best.
with thy uncovered body this extremity of the skies.
A shallow plash to plunge him in the deep
Sir, look well to my husband's house; and--
Ay, sir, all this is so: but why
And we be lords and rulers over Rouen;
And the first motion, all the interim is
country's friend,
would think scolding would do little good upon him:
O heaven! How got she out? O treason of the blood!
To know who hath obtained the glory of the day.
Yes, my lord, if it please your grace.
Anon, anon!
What an infinite mock is this, that a man should
O' the jewel house,
Now, when the bridegroom in the morning comes
I apt, and my saying pretty?
Tullus Aufidius then had made new head?
This is the prettiest low-born lass that ever
So from that spring whence comfort seem'd to come
For my part, I care not: I say little; but when
Didst thou never see Titan kiss a dish of butter?
Lastly, myself unkindly banished,
Give to our tables meat, sleep to our nights,
The dogs did yell: put L to sore, then sorel jumps
From first to last resolve you.
Ascribes the glory of his conquest got
He'll watch the horologe a double set,
I am no viper, yet I feed
O, I do fear thee, Claudio; and I quake,
If to-morrow be a fair day, by eleven o'clock it will
Than would make up his message.
That seems disgracious in the city's eyes,
Never crave him; we are definitive.
That she is busy and she cannot come.
Edward and Richard, like a brace of greyhounds
Till we with trophies do adorn thy tomb.
To cross my friend in his intended drift
That is the sum of all, Leonato. Signior Claudio
And you, sir.
Make the prize light.
And towards London they do bend their course,
time; have napkins enow about you; here
Did her grandsire leave her seven hundred pound?
We are alone; here's none but thee and I.
Diana's rangers false themselves, yield up
Which, but thou hast already, with all my heart
as I am a gentleman, I will live to be thankful to
By my sweet soul, I mean setting thee at liberty,
recompense for your love, to lay any of them on you.
To MARDIAN
You weary those that refresh us: pray, let's see
Give me leave, beseech you. I did send,
Talk like the vulgar sort of market men
The last was I that helped thee to the crown;
Sprung from the rancorous outrage of your duke
Ladies, there is an idle banquet attends you:
I might have said 'No part of it is mine;
Take thy commission.
Ay, with such gifts that heaven shall share with you.
[Aside]                 What's that to him?
The sharded beetle in a safer hold
[Aside]  That every like is not the same, O Caesar,
Now useless, boil'd within thy skull! There stand,
Wisdom! to leave his wife, to leave his babes,
Enter an old Widow of Florence, DIANA, VIOLENTA, and MARIANA, with other Citizens
Who since I heard to be discomfited.
I will lay him down such reasons for this adventure
And after slew herself.
Come, to our flock.
This night to be comptrollers.
So many folds of favour. Sure, her offence
Whose youthful spirit, in me regenerate,
SCENE II. The same. Plains near Angiers.
If it prove
You Dukes of Orleans, Bourbon, and of Berri,
He supp'd at my house; but I therefore shake not.
And humbly thus, with halters on their necks,
Or else my sword with an unbatter'd edge
Here's one comes in his shirt, with light and weapons.
Amen.
Of all that world of wealth I have drawn together
Before the wound do grow uncurable;
Now will I to the Goths, and raise a power,
Buckingham's army is dispersed and scatter'd;
an emperor;
Unless he take the course that you have done,
Ay, mine own fortune in my misery.
Into a madman's rags; to assume a semblance
My daughter Katharina is to be married:
dearly? By this kind of chase, I should hate him,
That lies like truth: 'Fear not, till Birnam wood
He, woman;
Your grace has given a precedent of wisdom
must speak through, saying thus, or to the same
Rush on his host, as doth the melted snow
But comforts we despise; our size of sorrow,
Think what you will, we seize into our hands
'Twas I that kill'd her.
Twenty-three days
Exit
you do it bravely.
And think it no addition, nor my wish,
And skilless as unpractised infancy.
I am as ignorant in that as you
Therefore stay yet; thou need'st not to be gone.
These should be hours for necessities,
Is full of virtue, bounty, worth and qualities
should he not be publicly shamed.
SCENE III. Brutus's tent.
I will most thankful be; and thanks to men
To her will, sir, or so.
If this prove
To ruffle in the commonwealth of Rome.
The weeds which his broad-spreading leaves did shelter,
Looks fearfully in the confined deep:
The ingratitude of this Seleucus does
Let every soldier hew him down a bough
I'll drown my book.
Enter PETRUCHIO and KATHARINA
No, sir, the worse.
The doctrine of ill-doing, nor dream'd
For it an archbishop.
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
I am ashamed. O heavens! what have I done?
Do you your office, or give up your place,
For hither will our friends repair to us.
You may.
the door: shall we be merry?
Dash'd all to pieces. O, the cry did knock
Go play, Mamillius; thou'rt an honest man.
Her father hath commanded her to slip
And here I take the unfeigned oath,
Brother, I'll go and bring it thee.
Two may keep counsel when the third's away:
Lady, I will commend you to mine own heart.
And then he drew a dial from his poke,
And hide me with a dead man in his shroud;
I am a most poor woman, and a stranger,
O, death's a great disguiser; and you may add to it.
with the oaken garland.
No more than he that threats. To arms let's hie!
Answer'd neglectingly I know not what,
And, in our maiden council, rated them
That hath dishonour'd all our family;
Why, this is strange. Go call the abbess hither.
Let us sit down and mark their yelping noise;
Are with more spirit chased than enjoy'd.
Belike, some noble gentleman that means,
And in my loyal bosom lies his power.
Why have those banish'd and forbidden legs
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Were I like thee, I'ld throw away myself.
Which, you say, live to come in my behalf.
my dreams again: I will therefore tarry in
Indeed, la, 'tis a noble child.
lord, fie! a soldier, and afeard? What need we
of our own behavior,--we make guilty of our
And worse than Progne I will be revenged:
[To TITUS]  Two of thy whelps, fell curs of
So much uncurbable, her garboils, Caesar
And they shall feel the vengeance of my wrath.
O, let me live!
Be what they will, may stand forth face to face,
Run, run, O, run!
to endure her loud alarums, why, man, there be good
And we must take the current when it serves,
upon too trivial motion; one that converses more
And ask him what's the reason of these arms.
Sir, I thought it fit
What Cloten's being here to us portends,
ANTIPHOLUS
Miss that which one unworthier may attain,
Enter ANGELO, ESCALUS, and a Justice, Provost, Officers, and other Attendants, behind
A table set out. Enter DUKE SENIOR, AMIENS, and Lords like outlaws
His present reconciliation take;
Not to be spoke of;
Warwick is chancellor and the lord of Calais;
He must have some attendants. Though his humour
appoint him a meeting; give him a show of comfort in
Whose father bears the title of a king,--
Masking the business from the common eye
Give me leave, Caesar,--
What news, friar, of the duke?
Bear hateful memory, poor Enobarbus did
To hasten on his expedition.
Injurious wasps, to feed on such sweet honey
Be nominated for an equal pound
not, use him for the present and dismiss him. He
I cannot draw a cart, nor eat dried oats;
to him again, and he's yours.
woolward for penance.
Confess who set thee up and pluck'd thee own,
I'll draw the form and model of our battle,
Pisanio might have kill'd thee at the heart,
Although my seal be stamped in his face.
Make the Moor thank me, love me and reward me.
And see him safe i' the Tower.
And change your favours too; so shall your loves
Whereto I have invited many a guest,
kind and natural; with him, the portion and sinew of
Ay, my lord; even so
But O how vile an idol proves this god
For, till thou speak, thou shalt not pass from hence.
I have another weapon in this chamber;
Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE bearing a torch before him
Cold statues of the youth, and, in a word,
To-morrow in the battle think on me,
of valour; and drive the gentleman, as I know his
I do not like the Tower, of any place.
By what? by any other house or person?
And better in my mind not undertook.
This day, in argument upon a case,
Send for money, knight: if thou hast her not i'
all shall flout me out of my calling.
Honest as either, to purge him of that humour
Should ravish doters with a false aspect;
Conspirant 'gainst this high-illustrious prince;
But yet not stay, entreat me how you can.
Bring you the maid, you shall not lack a priest.
What instance gives Lord Warwick for his vow?
But that my coat is better than thou know'st
Where your majesty demands, that the King of France,
I am your accessary; and so, farewell.
A mighty and a fearful head they are,
Did see and hear, devise, instruct, walk, feel,
You will compel me, then, to read the will?
Given order for our horses; and to-night,
Enter, at one door KING HENRY, EXETER, BEDFORD,  GLOUCESTER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND, and other Lords;  at another, the FRENCH KING, QUEEN ISABEL, the  PRINCESS KATHARINE, ALICE and other Ladies; the DUKE of BURGUNDY, and his train
Like Sir Actaeon he, with Ringwood at thy heels:
''Tis dinner-time,' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he;
That is not glad to see thee! You are three
To hold opinion with Pythagoras,
God amend us, God amend! we are much out o' the way.
For I am all the subjects that you have,
And I will use the olive with my sword,
DON
Both her sweet hands, her tongue, and that more dear
Of Coeur-de-lion knighted in the field.
I do not much dislike the matter, but
All manner of men assembled here in arms this day
And, fly thou how thou canst, they'll tangle thee:
I did not give the lie. Out o' your
May be more free.
Come, leave your drinking, and fall to blows.
Why seek'st thou me? could not this make thee know,
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
And then, as we have ta'en the sacrament,
shall name your highness in this form and with this
Or wrath or craft may get him.
Have used to conquer, standing on the earth,
More than my brother: 'Ay,' quoth my uncle
Therefore I know she is about my height.
Can lay upon my sin: yet sinn'd I not
the arbitrement of swords, can try it out with all
Ay, Clifford; a bedlam and ambitious humour
such an answer would stop them all. To be now a
Enter PAROLLES
They are fairly welcome.
Exeunt Arragon and train
My household stuff, my field, my barn,
Of this deep pit, poor Bassianus' grave.
My most honourable lord, I am e'en sick of shame,
though his affections are higher mounted than ours,
according to the scrip.
What dost thou say?
you: we coted them on the way; and hither are they
If you be hired for meed, go back again,
From heaven! alas, sir, I never came there     God
These pretty country folks would lie,
Ay, ay; farewell.
O God's lady dear!
She'll none o' the count: she'll not match above
Which is he that killed the deer?
I'll bring him to you.
Do not call it sin in me,
Exit BARDOLPH
To swear by him whom I protest to love,
And you, my sovereign lady, with the rest,
Stephano is my name; and I bring word
But that's no matter; let him kill one first;
As little joy may you suppose in me.
'For that it saved me, keep it; in like necessity--
Or else you love not, for to be wise and love
And chastisement doth therefore hide his head.
But this most foul, strange and unnatural.
Let good Antonio look he keep his day,
That makes the senate ugly.
Quiet untroubled soul, awake, awake!
The anger'd ocean foams; with which I meant
And York and impious Beaufort, that false priest,
And never after to inherit it.
And that you come to reprehend my ignorance.
pills to cool the reins. Call her in.
Exeunt HERO and URSULA
Must be a faith that reason without miracle
a villain that says such a father begot villains.
What, not a whore?
I say I love thee more than he can do.
Do I stand there? I never had a brother;
O,
me on. Yea, but how if honour prick me off when I
Now, by my faith, lords, 'twas a glorious day:
To warrant thee, as I am 'rested for.
SCENE IV. A room in Capulet's house.
My thoughts were like unbridled children, grown
if our sport had gone forward, we had all been made
Mistrust of good success hath done this deed.
Find shapes of grief, more than himself, to wail;
descend; my chambers are honourable: fie! privacy?
Good morrow, masters; put your torches out:
daughter for a monkey.
And, O, what better matter breeds for you
And therefore shall it charm thy riotous tongue.
O the good gods!
Exeunt
Thou art straightway with the fiends.
O Clitus!
Exeunt all but ALBANY and EDGAR
That ever I have felt.
Discuss unto me; art thou officer?
With hate in those where I expect most love!
With that recognizance and pledge of love
Why should I think you can be mine and true,
Some never-heard-of torturing pain for them.
Grace to boot!
He that conceals him, death.
Well, the best is, she hath no teeth to bite.
Ay, to the leavening; but here's yet in the word
Pawn their experience to their present pleasure,
Thy business?
sides, like a leather jerkin.
Were you there?
Balk logic with acquaintance that you have
That God had lent us but this only child;
SCENE VI. Dunsinane. Before the castle.
He finds thee in the stout Norweyan ranks,
When thou hast stolen away from fairy land,
His incivility confirms no less.
for, indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish
And therefore do they cry, though you forbid,
I was then present, saw them salute on horseback;
Words, life and all, old Lancaster hath spent.
Give me your hand and let me feel your pulse.
For it requires the royal debt it lent you.
You shall not go: one cannot speak a word,
ill employment!
I led them on in this distracted fear,
with the other confederate companion!
Committed! O thou public commoner!
I mean thou shalt, we'll bar thee from succession;
Well, my lord:
Peter Quince,--
More, sir, and worse. She did confess she had
Roused on the sudden from their drowsy beds,
Nay, that's certain; we have the exhibition to examine.
Exeunt PRINCE HENRY and POINS
Nurse, commend me to thy lady and mistress. I
No, no, no, no, no.
By my troth, sir, no; though it please you to be
To Saturn, Caius, not to Saturnine;
They shall be praying nuns, not weeping queens;
Go; I'll to dinner: hie you to the cell.
With nightly tears and daily heart-sore sighs;
I do not like 'But yet,' it does allay
But they did say their prayers, and address'd them
What, gone, my lord, and bid me not farewell!
Follow your function, go, and batten on cold bits.
Forgive my fearful sails! I little thought
That yet can do thee office? If thou hast,
Fear'st thou that, Antonio?
The brightest heaven of invention,
Tell us the Dauphin's mind.
Come, he hath hid himself among these trees,
Ye re goodly things, you voices!
But kill not all together.
What two reverend bishops
Than Aquitaine, a dowry for a queen.
shalt woo her. Cried I aim? said I well?
Thus, with his speechless hand: what he would do,
Withdraw with us: and let the trumpets sound
Enter LENNOX and another Lord
Till you return at night. Goes Fleance with you?
The third son, Duke of Clarence, from whose line
And spend your rich opinion for the name
Therefore, for God's sake, entertain good comfort,
Kept him a foreign man still; which so grieved him,
Which in the time of death he gave our father.
Maid's mild behavior and sobriety.
You are deceived, my lord; she never saw it:
To you Duke Humphrey must unload his grief,
Flourish, and shout
I have one friend alive; thou wouldst disprove me.
Thou to me thy secrets tell.
Through Gloucestershire; by which account,
As you shall give the advice. By the fire
Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word,
These many, then, shall die; their names are prick'd.
Why, here's a change indeed in the commonwealth!
Silence bestows that virtue on it, madam.
Is a bold spirit in a loyal breast.
When Caesar's head is off.
Enter NORTHUMBERLAND and others
In the base court? Base court, where kings grow base,
From my great purpose in to-morrow's battle.
Climbing my walls in spite of me the owner,
But on his knees at meditation;
Before King Richard in his royal lists?
O wonderful son, that can so astonish a mother! But
Exeunt all but CLOTEN
As when his god is pleased.
When every feather sticks in his own wing,
Recking as little what betideth me
O, here is
me but as a common man; witness the night, your
Show duty, as mistaken all this while
Certainly, sir, I can.
They are as children but one step below,
pitiful cries they made to us to help them, when,
'Tis so. And the tears of it are wet.
otherwise, for your ill opinion and the assault you
name out of his heart, and turn him going.
I can interpret all her martyr'd signs;
'Tis very true.
Exit ANTONIO
He's coming, madam; but in very strange manner. He
Verily, I do not jest with you; there came news from
That thou neglect me not, with that opinion
Hear you. my lords,--
the parliament of England.
Drinks
I have some of 'em in Limbo Patrum, and there they
That had in it a crannied hole or chink,
sport, there should be, again to inflame it and to
This letter, then, to Friar Peter give;
Somewhat too sudden, sirs, the warning is;
He's married.
Revenge it, as you love your mother's life,
Even for his sake am I pitiless.
Ay.
Well bandied both; a set of wit well play'd.
The visitor will not give him o'er so.
Who's there, besides foul weather?
That he will not be won to aught against him.
Now, my Lord Hastings and Sir William Stanley,
frights English out of his wits.
every wink of an eye some new grace will be born:
wise, no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether
In what part of your body pleaseth me.
And pay the sum that may deliver me.
Your cares set up do not pluck my cares down.
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
I do not now fool myself, to let imagination jade
prediction; there's son against father: the king
His wife who wins me by that means I told you,
Since guiltiness I know not; but yet I feel I fear.
Marry, thus: when it stands well with him, it
The dignity of this act was worth the audience of
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
thou art lovely. More fairer than fair, beautiful
I'll hence forthwith unto the sanctuary,
of the prince's subjects.
I'll about it this evening: and I will presently
And must be buried but as an intent
And thou, Hortensio, with thy loving widow,
Why, then, let them alone till they are sober: if
That you create your emperor's eldest son,
Where fair is not, praise cannot mend the brow.
Rotten humidity; below thy sister's orb
In faith, I gave it to the judge's clerk:
What, art thou waking?
transformation!
what a wardrobe here is for thee!
Now good or bad, 'tis but the chance of war.
But even the very middle of my heart
As may beseem some well-reputed page.
Enter the DUKE, the Magnificoes, ANTONIO, BASSANIO, GRATIANO, SALERIO, and others
If a hart do lack a hind,
my offence to him is: it is something of my
Nay, I am the very pink of courtesy.
Howe'er repented after.
If ever from your eyelids wiped a tear
longer than they can sing? will they not say
That I must be their scourge and minister.
You flow to great distraction; come, my lord.
To do what, signior?
Thou didst love York, and I am son to York.
Have made themselves so strong:--for with her death
Of thy former lady's eye:
once to a thing, and I was never mine own man
And that shall bail me; hie thee, slave, be gone!
Between two dogs, which hath the deeper mouth;
And at her heels a huge infectious troop
Himself a king.
that I wear, owe no man hate, envy no man's
I shall be furnish'd to inform you rightly
That death and nature do contend about them,
friendship falls off, brothers divide: in
They shoot but calm words folded up in smoke,
Hold! the general speaks to you; hold, hold, for shame!
Go forth, Agrippa, and begin the fight:
That this same very day your enemies,
No, Warwick, thou art worthy of the sway,
Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
Or else a breath: the combatants being kin
But such another man!
The extravagant and erring spirit hies
this from me, I count it one of my greatest
With modesty admiring thy renown,
Sir John Falstaff.
him like a carbon ado.
Enter OTHELLO
By many of these trains hath sought to win me
And mine a sad one.
I do not bear these crossings. Give me leave
Thou, Leonatus, art the lion's whelp;
sweet breath as will utter a brace of words.
That thou art so inhuman,--'twill not prove so;--
So soon as I can win the offended king,
How much I have disabled mine estate,
I dare not, sir
Doth miracle itself, loved before me.
Having call'd them from the deep! O, still
Re-enter Attendant, with a glass
going, forsooth: the business is for Helen to come hither.
Lucilius' Servant	Alas, my lord,-
Have got by the late voyage is but merely
Divide me from your bosom.
Re-enter Ghost
And with her personage, her tall personage,
Do appear, to make the world twice rich. Live,
For further life in this world I ne'er hope,
Awake, awake!
says, is muddied withal: pray you, sir, use the
My lord, prince Pericles is fled.
A thousand men have broke their fasts to-day,
Which he in this adventure hath surprised,
And they did make no noise, in such a night
We must with all our main of power stand fast:
To LUCIUS
Dishonour'd thus, and challenged of wrongs?
To hear and see the matter.
And would have rent it. Another word, Menenius,
For your desire to know what is between us,
What, what?
So I do: what's the matter?
What's that to the purpose?
Though in her cradle, yet now promises
And I would give his wife my bauble, sir, to do her service.
Has Page any brains? hath he any eyes? hath he any
Nay, for a need, thus far come near my person:
My brother Montague shall post to London:
And after all this fearful homage done,
A larger dare to our great enterprise,
I am weak with toil, yet strong in appetite.
And in this seat of peace tumultuous wars
I'll by a sign give notice to our friends,
France, thou shalt rue this hour within this hour.
Pompey, presently denied him rivality; would not let
Never, before this day, in all his life.
With hey, ho,  and c.
What music is this?
There's tricks i' the world; and hems, and beats her heart;
Ay, so please your majesty. The Duke of Exeter has
And I for Ganymede.
Ah sir! ah sir! Well, death's the end of all.
Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS, with Attendants
God knows thou art a collop of my flesh;
Were he as famous and as bold in war
The Britons have razed out, though with the loss
The emperor himself and all thy foes;
How now, sweet queen!
Bidding the law make court'sy to their will:
From which awaked, the truth of what we are
May know wherefore we took the sacrament
Ay, madam, well; for I was bred and born
Here, boys, here, here! shall we wag?
Match not the high perfection of my loss:
My boys,
Why all these things change from their ordinance
We have dispatch'd the duke, as he commanded.
Lets fall his sword before your highness' feet,
How art thou call'd? and what is thy degree?
My gay apparel for an almsman's gown,
At Eltham Place I told your majesty.
By that false woman, as this king by thee.
'Tis noble Kent, your friend.
And of thy cunning had no diffidence:
And bid me stand aloof, and so I did:
Being spoke behind your back, than to your face.
Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea,
Something browner than Judas's marry, his kisses are
He wrings at some distress.
All his revenue.
Because he loves her, he despiseth me;
But fear the sword like me, he'll scarcely look on't.
By my trot, I tarry too long. Od's me!
As who, my lord?
Is as a whisper in the ears of death,
He is afeard to come.
Ay, ay: O, lay me by my mistress' side.
Nothing but a colossus can do thee that friendship.
Stand, sir, and throw us that you have about ye:
As many as you please.
This chaos, when degree is suffocate,
I will stand betwixt you and danger.
To change true rules for old inventions.
Your breath of full consent bellied his sails;
This tun of treasure; and, in lieu of this,
Thurio borrows his wit from your ladyship's looks,
Enter ANTONIO, SALARINO, and SALANIO
Though Cambridge, Scroop and Grey, in their dear care
Many for many virtues excellent,
Are much deceived; for they did swear you did.
Say,
Who had the world as my confectionary,
The king, I can tell you, looks for us all: we must
I wish you now, then;
By the false faith of him I trusted most;
I'll make a peace between your soul and you.
To sauce thy dishes.
Spare for no faggots, let there be enow:
Hostess, I forgive thee: go, make ready breakfast;
If she have time to breathe be well assured
Go, hang yourselves all! you are idle shallow
No, madam; we have cull'd such necessaries
But presently prevent the ways to wail.
Do, do: he'll but break a comparison or two on me;
Good, good, my lord; the secrets of nature
So, gentlemen,
My herald thoughts in thy pure bosom rest them:
The seal'd-up oracle, by the hand deliver'd
sit like a jack-an-apes, never off. But, before God,
A flourish of trumpets, and ordnance shot off, within
house-eaves, because they are lecherous. The duke
If thou neglect'st or dost unwillingly
That shall salute our rightful sovereign
In Russian habit: here they stay'd an hour,
You may deserve of him through me, and wisdom
Robes and furr'd gowns hide all. Plate sin with gold,
Go you to hunting; I'll abide with him.
Who doth desire to see you.
Since that respects of fortune are his love,
Thou speak'st like a physician, Helicanus,
This ring was mine; I gave it his first wife.
'Tis well that I get it so. But, Launce, how sayest
Lend me your knees, and all my life to come
And I am one that love Bianca more
Enter a Messenger
Remember I have done thee worthy service;
Hath thus beguiled your daughter of herself
of the sight of Orlando: I'll go find a shadow and
Yes, Cassius; and, from henceforth,
Sermons in stones and good in every thing.
And so shall starve with feeding. Come, let's go:
Than have seen this.
When as the noble Duke of York was slain,
Soft, swain, awhile, beseech you;
Death and damnation! O!
with Benedick for his company; for, from the crown
HECTOR passes
She thinks not so; peruse this writing else.
To plead mine innocence; for that dye is on me
Against this cruelty fight on thy side,
How tender 'tis to love the babe that milks me:
To Bolingbroke are we sworn subjects now,
Now my charms are all o'erthrown,
What, neither?
As he's reported by this gentleman;
It is myself I mean: in whom I know
One Michael Cassio, a Florentine,
More active-valiant or more valiant-young,
Letter for letter, but that the name of Page and
betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
Your colder reasons.
The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
He is my son; yea, and therein my shame;
Is true of mind and made of no such baseness
Who never promiseth but he means to pay.
against a post when he was drunk. They will steal
That I have seen inhabit in those cheeks?
Enter CARDINAL OF WINCHESTER in Cardinal's habit, a Legate and two Ambassadors
And hither come in't: go, hence with diligence!
Bless her when she is riggish.
Let us go. Come;
Though you be therein curious, the least cause
Know you not
I leave out ceremony.
What, shall I groan and tell thee?
In eye of Imogen, that best
Sparkles this stone as it was wont? or is't not
Looking all downwards to behold our cheeks
Thou canst not come to me: I come to thee.
I am in all affected as yourself;
Could not, with all their quantity of love,
Ay, but I hope, sir, that you love not here.
Have done, have done; here comes the gentleman.
To think me as well a sister as a wife,
Exeunt all but HAMLET
To call upon him.
But I can tell that in each grace of these
To build his fortune I will strain a little,
He plays false, father.
can give you intelligence of an intended marriage.
Farewell, my liege. Now no way can I stray;
Good my lord, hear me.
They'll be in scarlet straight at any news.
Flower as she was, deflowered by him.
your hearts.
had rather than forty shillings I had such a leg,
as Horace says in his--What, my soul, verses?
Let's along.
Enter COSTARD, for Pompey
Go with me. Once more, new servant, welcome:
Doth he still rage?
And our oppression hath made up this league.
Nor tell tales of thee to high-judging Jove:
My sceptre for a palmer's walking staff,
I am glad to see you in this merry vein:
prove fools; and I, that am sure I lack thee, may
how say you?
Or lambs pursued by hunger-starved wolves.
Shall sink in my rebuke. Give me to know
Let me be umpire in this doubtful strife.
For quiet days, fair issue and long life,
For every storm that blows: I, to bear this,
That, if it chance the one of us do fail,
Most rightful judge!
Than woman's lightness? Having waste ground enough,
Hearing so much, will speed her foot again,
Therefore I part with him, and part with him
By each particular star in heaven and
Re-enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, BIANCA, BAPTISTA, HORTENSIO, GRUMIO, and Train
Divide thy lips, than we are confident,
At Menelaus' tent, most princely Troilus:
Which have solicited. The rest is silence.
How long a time lies in one little word!
And thou that art his mate, make boot of this;
We have met with foes
A most manly wit, Margaret; it will not hurt a
That makes calamity of so long life;
Ha!
And afterward determine our proceedings.
To counsel Cassio to this parallel course,
France, I am burn'd up with inflaming wrath;
Another would fly swift, but wanteth wings;
bastards,--as, I think, I have brought up some eleven--
Into the purse of rich prosperity
Nay, my troth, I know not: but I know, to be up
The king is come: deal mildly with his youth;
Unto the brother of your loving bride;
Not now, not now.
Though he be as good a gentleman as the devil is, as
You here shall swear upon this sword of justice,
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
Yet may he live awhile; and, it may be,
Amongst the loving Welshmen canst procure,
What shall I say to thee, Lord Scroop? thou cruel,
A young man married is a man that's marr'd:
My father gave me honour, yours gave land.
Now, my lord.
Disgorges such a tempest forth,
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
Ay, kennel, puddle, sink; whose filth and dirt
Enter another Messenger
In the unpartial judging of this business.
I am tied to the stake, and I must stand the course.
No vast obscurity or misty vale,
We therefore have great cause of thankfulness;
Stirr'd up by God, thus boldly for his king:
My prophecy is but half his journey yet;
the reason why they are not so punished and cured
They are already, or quickly will be landed:
I will stand for 't a little, though therefore I die a virgin.
Not your gaoler, then,
known you but three days, and already you are no stranger.
O Cupid, Cupid, Cupid!
A friendly eye could never see such faults.
Would make such fearful and confused cries
Mine boy? not till King Henry be dead.
Reads
And with a dropping industry they skip
Exit
monument of the victory will I bear;
Away, then! come, seek the conspirators.
Thou sayest true; they're too unwholesome, o'
enticements, oaths, tokens, and all these engines of
A brand to the end o' the world.
Follow me, sirs, and my proceedings eye:
for a placket. I have said my prayers and devil Envy
DON
A holy parcel of the fairest dames.
Enter RATCLIFF
For comfort is too far for us to expect.
Ha, art thou there?
Force should be right; or rather, right and wrong,
your whole plot too light for the counterpoise of so
I do retort the 'solus' in thy bowels;
O you panderly rascals! there's a knot, a ging, a
if he could burn us all into one coal,
All but the base.
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night:
Continue in my liking? nay, gave notice
Well, then, that's the humour of't.
A maiden battle, then? O, I perceive you.
Is it not strange and strange?
A loud alarum. Enter CLIFFORD, wounded
Yet to beat down these rebels here at home.
That all the travellers do fear so much.
Against all sense you do importune her:
To-night she is mew'd up to her heaviness.
Will take the crown. The sum of this,
some that take upon them to know, or do take upon
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord,
Maintain my opinion.
A jewel, lock'd into the wofull'st cask
Unreconciliable, should divide
prince's subjects. You shall also make no noise in
Lay open to my earthy-gross conceit,
Do you think I meant country matters?
What, my lord! dispraise?
They shall be no more than needful there, if they
How that might change his nature, there's the question.
I have been told so of many: but indeed an old
you had it, I'll take out no work on't.
They have all new legs, and lame ones: one would take it,
And not be cheque'd.
Corrupted honest men! Dispatch.--Enobarbus!
I' the name of me--
Accompany the greatness of thy blood
The dream's here still: even when I wake, it is
Married your royalty, was wife to your place;
Hast thou read truth?
He doth indeed show some sparks that are like wit.
Accursed, unhappy, wretched, hateful day!
Thorough the hazards of this untrod state
For me, most wretched, to perform the like.
This, my lord.
Where our scenes seem to live. I do beseech you
What, have I scaped love-letters in the holiday-
And yet the end of all is bought thus dear,
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
Between our kingdoms and our royal selves,
Why, look you, I am whipp'd and scourged with rods,
Of all the four, or the three, or the two, or one of the four.
them break your backs with burthens, take your
All school-days' friendship, childhood innocence?
With you, goodman boy, an you please: come, I'll
Deliver'd strongly through my fixed teeth,
The heavens so dim by day. A savage clamour!
Your salt tears' head: now to all sense 'tis gross
Good people enter and lay hold on him.
'Faith, tell me now in earnest, how came Falstaff's
But you, my noble lords, may name the time;
Omitting Suffolk's exile, my soul's treasure?
With any long'd-for change or better state.
The Moor already changes with my poison:
They dance! they are mad women.
Tell him, I'll knock his leek about his pate
ransom him to any French courtier for a new-devised
Which she entreated: our courteous Antony,
honestly; for, as you know, Master Froth, I could
Re-enter SUFFOLK and WARWICK, with their weapons drawn
Or I should breathe it so into thy body,
Enter PRINCE HENRY
To make thy riches pleasant. What's yet in this
Comes Warwick, backing of the Duke of York;
Before a willing bondman; then I know
That pupils lacks she none of noble race,
with pistols, that none shall issue out; otherwise
'Zounds, ye whore! is black so base a hue?
COUNTESS
Time calls upon's:
Indeed he hath played on his prologue like a child
That kneel'd unto the buds. Admit him, sir.
Must give us pause: there's the respect
Unless Bellario, a learned doctor,
private, it is a very vile life. Now, in respect it
Rome and the righteous heavens be my judge,
Thou hast forspoke my being in these wars,
It will be dangerous to go on: no further.
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, VINCENTIO, GRUMIO, with Attendants
Hark, boy! what noise is that?
When she shall challenge this, you will reject her.
shalt enjoy her; therefore make money. A pox of
i' the morn; I'll call you at your house: give
When waterdrops have worn the stones of Troy,
Then every soldier kill his prisoners:
Be opposite all planets of good luck
Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes,
I am question'd by my fears, of what may chance
Have I liked several women; never any
Of the whole dungy earth.
The lazy time, if not with some delight?
True, my good lord; I know you for no less.
What husband in thy power I will command:
And buy a rope's end: that will I bestow
Comes forward
Will kneel to him with thanks.
Wanting the manage of unruly jades.
Than amply to imbar their crooked titles
'Tis true, Master Shallow.
At market-price have bought.
SCENE I. GLOUCESTER's castle.
Unthread the rude eye of rebellion
Cry the amen; and yet my conscience says
Will you set your wit to a fool's?
head; that he gives entrance to such companions?
way: hark! you may know by their trumpets.
none of you hates them--that between you and the
Look, who kneels here! Flesh of thy flesh, Thaisa;
My mistress show'd me thee and thy dog and thy bush.
And even with such-like valour men hang and drown
And the contrarious winds that held the king
Walter, Sugarsop and the rest: let their heads be
A justice of peace sometimes may be beholding to his
Spiteful and wrathful, who, as others do,
But Rosaline, you have a favour too:
Faith, sir, few of any wit in such matters: as they
And use thou all the endeavour of a man
Hold here, take this: tell gentle Jessica
Told our intents before; which once disclosed,
Do you not remember, lady, in your father's time, a
Befitting this first meeting. Welcome, sir;
This speak I, lords, to let you understand,
As one that are best acquainted with her humour.
bastard, what a joyful father wouldst thou make me!
And the queen too, and that presently.
When for so slight and frivolous a cause
[Advancing]  How shall I murder him, Iago?
I prithee, pretty youth, let me be better acquainted
Are you native of this place?
Now will he interpret to her.
This admiration, sir, is much o' the savour
And died that day when Viola from her birth
No, noble Ajax; you are as strong, as valiant, as
Enter OTHELLO, IAGO, and Gentlemen
Come, officer, away!
It is not possible: you have not a man in all
To blot out me, and put his own son in.
When I desired him to come home to dinner,
Our contract celebrated.
And then, I grant, we put a sting in him,
To force that on you, in a shameful cunning,
She is all happy as the fairest of all,
I promised to inquire carefully
Stabb'd Julius Caesar; savage islanders
Looks in a glass, that shows what future evils,
No exorciser harm thee!
SCENE III. The French camp near Dover.
other ventures he hath, squandered abroad. But ships
His father by as much as a performance
How now, Oswald!
You wrong this presence; therefore speak no more.
As if the world were all dissolved to tears,
To tell thee thou shalt see me at Philippi.
Whilst we by Antony are all enclosed.
For and a shrouding sheet:
Troilus methinks mounted the Troyan walls
My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
I marvel what kin thou and thy daughters are:
I'll to the doctor: he hath my good will,
It was my deer; and he that wounded her
To speak, as from his mouth, what he doth know
Are merely shadows to the unseen grief
In the great'st humbleness, and desired your highness
For thee to fight,    JOHN FALSTAFF'
And had no help of anger: they were parted
Bless this unworthy husband? he cannot thrive,
Desiring thee that Publius Cimber may
For with a band of thirty thousand men
He's not confirm'd; we may deny him yet.
As did the former lions of your blood.
His hopeful son's, his babe's, betrays to slander,
By how much the estate is green and yet ungovern'd:
It is spoke freely out of many mouths--
Upon the dancing banners of the French,
Gentle breath of yours my sails
With this slave's offal: bloody, bawdy villain!
Shall Ajax fight with Hector?
Do, good William.
The pregnant instrument of wrath
Proud can I never be of what I hate;
meant, Captain Macmorris, peradventure I shall think
And whet not on these furious peers;
All guiltless, meet reproach. What, ho! my lord!
Whom he reports to be a great magician,
The youthful Phoebus:
are to me nothing, so in nothing bless them, and to
other issue?
Even in the downfall of his mellow'd years,
This is dear mercy, and thou seest it not.
Are daily given to ennoble those
The cicatrice and capable impressure
Be stirring as the time; be fire with fire;
Therefore, when merchant-like I sell revenge,
Since first I saw yourself and Diomed
Can justly praise but what he does affect:
'Tis now the king's, and call'd Whitehall.
To you as much, sir! I am beholding to you
than the stripes I have received, which are mighty
This heavy act with heavy heart relate.
To answer matters of this consequence.
I thank ye; and be blest for your good comfort!
Well, let us see honest Master Page. Is Falstaff there?
Ah, in good sadness, is he; and talks of the basket
Fellow, where goest?
My lord, you are unjust, and, more than so,
And, lozel, thou art worthy to be hang'd,
And on it said a century of prayers,
To CARDINAL WOLSEY
In their applauding gates.
This night he makes a supper, and a great one,
Which pillage they with merry march bring home
Exeunt
Sorrow and grief have vanquish'd all my powers;
The brawns of Hercules: but his Jovial face
advantaged, and the corrupt deputy scaled. The maid
hath a third at Mexico, a fourth for England, and
Lead him off.
As we are now glad to behold your eyes;
Of late upon me: I must thank him only,
Although my body pay the price of it.
Is the fair hand that writ.
They that must weigh out my afflictions,
Not your demand; it values not your asking:
Was fashion'd to much honour from his cradle.
Made wit with musing weak, heart sick with thought.
shoe is my father: no, this left shoe is my father:
Alack, my lord, that fault is none of yours;
A plague upon that villain Somerset,
Thou but offend'st thy lungs to speak so loud:
Shakes so my single state of man that function
Upon my lady's missing, came to me
Yes, my good lord, I'll follow presently.
And we create, in absence of ourself,
As good to chide the waves as speak them fair.
To join with men in scorning your poor friend?
Untie the spell.
As I am son and servant to your will,
In a rich chair of state, opposing freely
Exit
The time has been, my senses would have cool'd
But to prorogue his grief.
Third son to the third Edward King of England:
And I am faint and cannot fly their fury:
As houses are defiled for want of use,
Be it so, Lysander: find you out a bed;
We'll mutiny.
That he hath breathed in my dishonour here.
Of those physicians that first wounded thee:
out no rhyme to 'lady' but 'baby,' an innocent
Thou art Hermione; or rather, thou art she
Among them know you one Vincentio?
Follow my mother.
Defacing monuments of conquer'd France,
Stand all apart Cousin of Buckingham!
Three or four thousand chequins were as pretty a
Hand in hand, with fairy grace,
And look upon, as if the tragedy
I would I were thy bird.
a fancy that he hath to strange disguises; as, to be
And ever may your highness yoke together,
do not cast away an honest man for a villain's
Speak but one rhyme, and I am satisfied;
Ah, cousin York! would thy best friends did know
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
SCENE I. Fields between Dartford and Blackheath.
That by no means I may discover them
What would you do?
Heaven's peace be with him!
You shall do small respect, show too bold malice
Dear gentlewoman,
There is so much that thou wilt kill me straight;
so it skills not much when they are delivered.
Free from a stubborn opposite intent,
That promise noble service: and they come
A senseless help when help past sense we deem.
Which shipmen do the hurricano call,
I have named him oft.
To God, my king and my succeeding issue,
That thou, Iago, who hast had my purse
That England, that was wont to conquer others,
Thou hast hit it; for there's no better sign of a
Enter two Citizens meeting
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
Fit thy consent to my sharp appetite;
Now heaven forfend! the holy maid with child!
For he is superstitious grown of late,
That hast such noble sense of thy friend's wrong!
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
And in the breath of bitter words let's smother
I could marry this wench for this device.
Ay, my good lord; 'twas he inform'd against him;
To give the enemy way, and to secure us
When every thing doth make a gleeful boast?
The emperor, in his rage, will doom her death.
Draw, if you be men. Gregory, remember thy swashing blow.
Think not on him till to-morrow:
Tongues spit their duties out, and cold hearts freeze
Then belike my children shall have no names:
What do you pity, sir?
How now shall this be compassed?
What is the news i' the court?
How many of you have mine eyes beheld!
To speak your bosom freely.
Thanks, sir; all the rest is mute.
Than to be under sail and gone to-night.
Cry but 'Ay me!' pronounce but 'love' and 'dove;'
Boy, I do love that country girl that I took in the
My very friend, hath got his mortal hurt
Music
Is thy name Tyrrel?
he was rheumatic, and talked of the whore of Babylon.
And set thee by Jove's side. Yet come a little,--
Tremble and start at wagging of a straw,
Lord Angelo, having affairs to heaven,
He striketh him
I'll hear him his confessions justify;
And claim her with a loving kiss.
Your lady seeks my life; come you between,
I had a Rutland too, thou holp'st to kill him.
I never gave you kingdom, call'd you children,
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
Re-enter CASSIO
May cement their divisions and bind up
And hardly kept our countrymen together,
need not to be ashamed of your majesty, praised be
Doubt truth to be a liar;
I am bound to you:
This lion is a very fox for his valour.
And let us presently go sit in council,
Wherein, my friends, have I offended you?
Who does infect her?
Against the proclamation of thy passion,
No, good mother, here's metal more attractive.
And pick strong matter of revolt and wrath
Successively from age to age, he built it?
All three of you, to be thus much o'ershot?
Mine innocent child?
quick, quick, that I may lay my head in thy lap.
Say, wast thou e'er contracted to this woman?
the feats of a lion: he hath indeed better
Free speech and fearless I to thee allow.
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
Her silence flouts me, and I'll be revenged.
And if it sort not well, you may conceal her,
you can the getting up of the negro's belly: the
And so she died: had she been light, like you,
Filling the aged wrinkles in my cheeks;
you? where a man may serve seven years for the loss
I did present him with the Paris balls.
Are there such? such are not we: praise us as we
Thou gentle nymph, cherish thy forlorn swain!
A ring in chase of you: so did I abuse
To gaze on Christian fools with varnish'd faces,
O, were that all! I think not on my father;
plum-tree gum and that they have a plentiful lack of
To angle for your thoughts: but you are wise,
And I will give a taste of it forthwith
Clap on more sails; pursue; up with your fights:
Combat with adverse planets in the heavens!
As hard to leave as keep; whose top to climb
I would not part a bachelor from the priest.
Rain sacrificial whisperings in his ear,
Exit
Not that it wounds,
Sir, induced by my charity, and hearing how hastily
To Desdemona hath to-night caroused
Yet it had not been amiss the rod had been made,
On his follies: never did I hear
'Tis more by fortune, lady, than by merit.
Cousins, a word, I pray you.
A right fair mark, fair coz, is soonest hit.
If it be aught to the old tune, my lord,
Which aptly sings the good.'
SCENE I. Britain. A hall in Cymbeline's palace.
Your servant, and Costard.
That's all I reck.
That living wrought me such exceeding trouble.
No, no: alack,
I have night's cloak to hide me from their sight;
tale in telling it, and deliver a plain message
If thou couldst please me with speaking to me, thou
Well, call them again. I am not made of stone,
The very trick on't.
Out, you mad-headed ape!
Honey, and milk, and sugar; there is three.
Our ears are cudgell'd; not a word of his
About your years, my lord.
Tell me, Panthino, what sad talk was that
But I confess, sir, that we were lock'd out.
Keep then far league and truce with thy true bed;
Be not dismayed.
Conceive when after many moody thoughts
This expedition's charge.
night to catch my horse, if I did not think thou
Cry.
This blot that they object against your house
If you will marry, make your loves to me,
John Duke of Alencon, Anthony Duke of Brabant,
KING CLAUDIUS dies
Let's see what they be: read them.
I say thou liest, Camillo, and I hate thee,
it.
The model of our chaste loves, his young daughter;
I beseech you, let me answer to the particular of
Some cogging, cozening slave, to get some office,
Why, hark ye, hark ye! and are you such fools
Sleep again, Lucius. Sirrah Claudius!
Or by some other.
Something he left imperfect in the
Do, I prithee; but yet have the grace to consider
To wisdom he's a fool that will not yield;
ACT II
To see great Pompey pass the streets of Rome:
Have a command to tend you?
To taint his nobler heart and brain
So the remembrance of my former love
Exeunt
ACT II
drunk to-day.
O, well begg'd!
Sits here, like beauty's child, whom nature gat
Deliver them up without their ransom straight,
Enter CORNELIUS and Ladies
By the dead and drowsy fire:
About his funeral: and you shall speak
To put on yellow stockings and to frown
differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound,
Will you send him, mistress, redemption, the money in his desk?
Make dust our paper and with rainy eyes
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
Exeunt
O my friends,
He blushes, and 'tis it:
My lord, old Sir John, with half-a-dozen more, are
Half stints their strife before their strokes begin.
I spake with the old woman about it.
Upon the sisterhood, the votarists of Saint Clare.
What's the unkindest tide?
Beshrew me but I love her heartily;
spy her through the wall. You shall see, it will
Her hair is auburn, mine is perfect yellow:
But do not love thyself; then thou wilt keep
Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
However they have writ the style of gods
Exeunt LUCENTIO and BIANCA
kind of merry war betwixt Signior Benedick and her:
offend: only, have a care that your bills be not
How went he under him?
Our own precedent passions do instruct us
Den it sall also content me.
Language unmannerly, yea, such which breaks
Now are frolic: not a mouse
As well we know your tenderness of heart
That either makes me or fordoes me quite.
I know this; and thus I challenge it.
Enter a Gentleman
May it be possible, that foreign hire
Does not become a man: 'tis much to blame.
Sirs, strive no more: such wither'd herbs as these
To fight on Edward's party for the crown;
And secretly to greet the empress' friends.
We'll set thee to school to an ant, to teach thee
For slander lives upon succession,
And wretched fools' secrets heedfully o'ereye.
Ay me! sad hours seem long.
answer every man directly and briefly, wisely and
Than give thy cause away.
I have brought you a letter and a couple of pigeons here.
From France to England, there to live in peace.
At your pleasure.
Here's too small a pasture for such store of muttons.
If thou didst know me, thou wouldest talk with me.
Can you not read it? Is it not fair writ?
This palliament of white and spotless hue;
loves not the common people.
Make mouths upon me when I turn my back;
Come, trusty sword;
Be patient, for you shall remain with us.
Cobweb.
They have made themselves, and that their fitness now
I pray thee, let me feel thy cloak upon me.
I would entreat you rather to put on
Nor hath Love's mind of any judgement taste;
And, looking on it with lack-lustre eye,
We bid be quiet when we hear it cry;
Cast on my noble father.
Which reformation must be sudden too,
Why, this is kindly done.
They are; and Bolingbroke
Wherefore this ghastly looking?
How?
Seal what I end withal! This double worship,
Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met,
The other night I fell asleep here behind the arras
Where death and danger dogs the heels of worth:
Merely awry: when he did love his country,
O God, sir, here's a dish I love not: I cannot
Away with them! let them be clapp'd up close.
And so am I for Phebe.
Do I entice you? do I speak you fair?
Octavius, then take him to follow thee,
Till all the Andronici be made away.
And issue forth and bid them battle straight.
De nails, madame.
What need you note it? pray you, keep your way:
With hearts create of duty and of zeal.
I'll hale the Dauphin headlong from his throne:
Is't not enough to break into my garden,
Darest thou, thou little better thing than earth,
But that our loves and comforts should increase,
Exeunt BIANCA and Servant
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, and the BISHOP of ELY
Enter the Page as a lady, with attendants
Should from her vesture chance to steal a kiss
And she is dead; which nothing, but to close
And leave us, Publius; lest that the people,
Therefore, good youth, address thy gait unto her;
Is not his grace protector to the king?
At least ungentle, of the dreadful Neptune,
Look he's winding up the watch of his wit;
And over-shine the earth as this the world.
Let's see your piece.
Shows Julia but a swarthy Ethiope.
To one whom they had punish'd.
Though he be honourable,--
Shamest thou not, knowing whence thou art extraught,
Upon his party 'gainst the Duke of Albany?
So, oft it chances in particular men,
With Rivers, Vaughan, Grey: and so 'twill do
And to your heirs for ever, common pleasures,
Long ere she did appear; the trees by the way
And yonder, Caesar.
So please my lord, I might not be admitted;
in one Mistress Page; gives intelligence of Ford's
Exeunt DUCHESS and other prisoners, guarded
This night to meet here, they could do no less
If that the former dare but what it can,
Did never sonnet for her sake compile,
Should answer solemn accidents. The matter?
'Tis not his wont to be the hindmost man,
The people are the city.
With base? with baseness? bastardy? base, base?
There's a palm presages chastity, if nothing else.
got! thou hast got more hair on thy chin than
SCENE II. A field between the two camps.
Yet you began rudely. What are you? what would you?
Nay, now you are too flat
Thou mightst deserve, or they impose, this usage,
Fell Warwick's brother and by that our foe.
Shall have the leading of this foot and horse.
For the love of God, a surgeon! Send one presently
Enter IAGO
art not thou horrible afeard? thou being
Than doth become a man. I will remain
And fence not Athens! Matrons, turn incontinent!
At his heels a stone.
Tell us, old man, how shall we be employ'd?
The empress' sons, I take them, Chiron and Demetrius.
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
This is the very false gallop of verses: why do you
What we are come about, and by no means
No.
Must fetch him in the papers.
Could not drop forth such giant-rude invention
But, tell me, is young George Stanley living?
off.
But for the certain knowledge of that truth
Unto the weary and all-watched night,
Affection's edge in me, were she as rough
Therefore, go speak: the duke will hear thy voice:
humour to knock you indifferently well. If you grow
They all cry, 'Henry!'
you any good; and that is but a kind of bastard
For God's sake. cousin, stay till all come in.
Send succors, lords, and stop the rage betime,
Exit
Is sick in love with Beatrice. Of this matter
Exeunt
what I would speak of concerns him.
Say she be mute and will not speak a word;
I know his noble nature--not to let
Upon the British party: O, untimely death!
Will you walk in, my lord?
No farther, sir; a man may rot even here.
Enter CASSIO and some Musicians
Do you think I will?
Throws up another skull
And like a sister am most loath to call
I look for an earthquake too, then.
You are Grand-jurors, are ye? we'll jure ye, 'faith.
To ALBANY
My brother Gloucester's voice? Ay;
Welcome, my lord: what, will our mother come?
O that he were alive, and here beholding
Mistake my fortunes; I am wealthy in my friends.
Your lord has betook himself to unknown travels,
He'll grant the tribute, send the arrearages,
That stout Pendragon in his litter sick
Which with experimental seal doth warrant
That can I witness; and a fouler fact
Not for my life: but yet I dare defend
And that our drift look through our bad performance,
Exit
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
Full half an hour.
Bend their best studies, heartily request
With sorrowful water? Now I see, I see,
By heaven, it is the same I gave the doctor!
I see thee compass'd with thy kingdom's pearl,
Which my lord paid for, be of any power
Virtue and that part of philosophy
And overmuch consumed his royal person:
Then stand with us.
But stay thee, 'tis the fruits of love I mean.
Which, out of use and staled by other men,
The secrets of my heart.
I have advertised him by secret means
Is she not apt?
Re-enter LUCIUS with LIGARIUS
Here come the lovers, full of joy and mirth.
That we have had no time to move our daughter:
Not to knit my soul to an approved wanton.
to undo us. Will you not go the way of women-kind?
Was this before the king return'd?
As he will lose his head ere give consent
Then swear allegiance to his majesty,
Exeunt
Death, lie thou there, by a dead man interr'd.
therefore welcome: I myself would have no power;
And now methinks I have a mind to it.
ecstasy hath so much overborne her that my daughter
Set roaring war: to the dread rattling thunder
Sir?
For thy mistaking so, we pardon thee.
O, they have lived long on the alms-basket of words.
Good night, mother.
Who by repentance is not satisfied
He is dead, Caesar:
Giving a letter
make you dance. 'Zounds, consort!
His smiles,
And I will.
And will not any way dishonour me.
They pass by strangely: they were used to bend
He leaves me, scorns me: briefly die their joys
To this good purpose, that so fairly shows,
Scotland hath will to help, but cannot help;
To Poet
But since correction lieth in those hands
Knight of the Burning Lamp.
What wouldst thou have me do?
God and our innocency defend and guard us!
And threw her sun-expelling mask away,
Sirrah, come hither: make no more ado,
To TRANIO
What, my dear Lady Disdain! are you yet living?
And till it be undoubted, we do lock
The flighty purpose never is o'ertook
Promised to Harry and his followers.
Of excellent witchcraft, who of force must know
That thy adulteries
Which told me they had beat you to your trenches?
Head, and butt! an hasty-witted body
So let us still continue peace and love.
Look to my chattels and my movables:
And keep the gate of hell!
Prithee, get thee in: would thou hadst ne'er been
Poor pelting villages, sheep-cotes, and mills,
sell bullocks. But did you think the prince would
And heard a mermaid on a dolphin's back
are some brown, some black, some auburn, some bald,
And I will break with her and with her father,
Have at thee!
sooner knew the reason but they sought the remedy;
Resides not in that man that does not think,--
An't please your grace, here my commission stays,
'Fair cousin'? I am greater than a king:
Tear him for his bad verses, tear him for his bad verses.
Well, the voice goes, madam:
If I must not, I need not be barren of accusations;
He is more patient
The quality of mercy is not strain'd,
And peace established between these realms
They fight: DOUGLAS flies
Am I a woodman, ha? Speak I like Herne the hunter?
From wayward sickness, and no grounded malice.
No, certainly.
my father's ambition! he was thinking of civil wars
That they lack; for if their heads had any
And see a fearful sight of blood and death.
So far I read aloud:
Enter Nurse, to the chamber
Exeunt
me; scurvy, old, filthy, scurvy lord! Well, I must
proclaims, shall be be set against a brick-wall, the
What would you with her, sir?
Other slow arts entirely keep the brain;
Let's see for means: O mischief, thou art swift
ACT II
Am not I Hermia? are not you Lysander?
Was there ever man had such luck! when I kissed the
signify to you that Fortune is blind; and she is
And has done half an hour, to know your pleasures.
As send precepts to the leviathan
cannot be cunning in her; if it be, she makes a
To bury so much gold under a tree,
Enter ORLANDO, with a paper
Above yon busky hill! the day looks pale
That, through the sight I bear in things to love,
With one fool's head I came to woo,
And daughters of the game.
For by that loss I will not purchase them.
And that was all?
I do beseech you, either not believe
Exeunt with trumpets
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
They are all welcome.
But what praise couldst thou bestow on a deserving
I'll drown more sailors than the mermaid shall;
Than faults may shake our frames,--let me be bold;
Especially since Charles must father it.
At your request! yes; nightingales answer daws.
Ten times more gentle than her father's crabbed,
do't: I hold it the more knavery to conceal it;
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth,
Get you gone, sir; I'll talk with you more anon.
Where that and other specialties are bound:
Or voluntary dotage of some mistress,
None can be call'd deform'd but the unkind:
Stuck with cloves.
Shall I forget myself to be myself?
Much is the force of heaven-bred poesy.
Let's see, let's see.
No: the princess hearing of her mother's statue,
Speak to me; I shall answer for her.
As fears and reasons? fie, for godly shame!
Come, wilt thou see me ride?
And how does that honourable, complete, free-hearted
Which they would have the profferer construe 'ay.'
That it did, sir, i' the very throat on
Offers, as I do, in a sign of peace,
Enter certain Outlaws
And stands colossus-wise, waving his beam,
And in my heart the strong and swelling evil
Spaniard's mouth so watered, that he went to bed to
And Cassius too.
We are too open here to argue this;
But you'll be secret?
half that they do: but this is most fallible, the
With keels of every kind: many hot inroads
Meeting were bare without it.
Ay me! what news? why dost thou wring thy hands?
Speak then, thou vinewedst leaven, speak: I will
My joy of liberty is half eclipsed.
Let there be gall enough in thy ink, though thou
That since have felt the vigour of his rage.
Shake off the golden slumber of repose.
have decreed not to sing in my cage. If I had my
As cause will be obey'd. Please you to march;
Clamours of hell, be measures to our pomp?
And thou unfit for any place but hell.
More venturous or desperate than this.
Was Caius Lucius in the Britain court
I am as like to call thee so again,
A little to disquantity your train;
The act of order to a peopled kingdom.
house: her pretence is a pilgrimage to Saint Jaques
hath something embolden'd me to this unseasoned
suspect thee, when peradventure thou wert accused by
It may well be called Jove's tree, when it drops
Breathe you, my friends: well fought;
That which upholdeth him that thee upholds,
Enter Outlaws, with DUKE and THURIO
My brother was too careless of his charge.
That for our gold we may provision have,
Make haste; the bridegroom he is come already:
But now, I tell thee--keep it to thyself--
Thou didst receive the holy sacrament,
Tarquin seven hurts i' the body.
Lay her i' the earth:
Me and thy crying self.
Exeunt
Was theme for you, you were the word of war.
The quiet of my wounded conscience;
And how does your content
Care for us! True, indeed! They ne'er cared for us
And let's be red with mirth.
A sick man's appetite, who desires most that
Therefore make present satisfaction,
Daughter, remember what I told you: if the prince
And foot me as you spurn a stranger cur
How dares thy harsh rude tongue sound this unpleasing news?
He will return; and hope I may that she,
Ay, so I fear; the more is my unrest.
That hurts by easing. But, to the quick o' the ulcer:--
Tendering my person's safety, hath appointed
But cast their gazes on Marina's face;
To question of his apprehension.
Yet put it out, for I would not be seen.
If thou dost nod, thou break'st thy instrument;
The knight opposed.
I'll not be tied to hours nor 'pointed times,
Full surfeits, and the dryness of his bones,
Starts up, and stands on end. O gentle son,
Sirs, stop his mouth, and let him speak no more.
Come, poor remains of friends, rest on this rock.
And what I do imagine let that rest.
Treason! treason!
Even while men's minds are wild; lest more mischance
Make us pay down for our offence by weight
they feared the death, they have borne life away;
Lady Cressida. I come to speak with Paris from the
shepherd; from whose simplicity I think it not
having in that perished vessel the dowry of his
I am now of all humours that have showed themselves
I pray you, what is he?
If I should tell my history, it would seem
[Aside to DONALBAIN]        Nor our strong sorrow
Yet now farewell; and farewell life with thee!
We'll have a swashing and a martial outside,
And dare not speak their knowledge. Antony
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
And mourn you for him: let him be regarded
Thus is the shepherd beaten from thy side,
With labour; then by-peeping in an eye
I'll meet you at that place some hour hence.
To make a second fall of cursed man?
Let me go to him.
Is my dear son with such sour company:
Thou art an elm, my husband, I a vine,
So get the start of the majestic world
Than in possession and jot of pleasure.
Pray you, do my commendations; I would be glad to see it.
And hath detain'd me all my flowering youth
If she and I be pleased, what's that to you?
Come your ways, sir; come.
His wish'd ability, he had himself
To visit him to-morrow or next day:
Thou wretch, despite o'erwhelm thee!
Make us thy ministers of chastisement,
But thou art fair, and at thy birth, dear boy,
Beguiles him as the mournful crocodile
The wheel is come full circle: I am here.
Our army lies, ready to give up the ghost.
They give their greeting to the citadel;
will serve; for once we stood up about the corn, he
Why art thou thus attired, Andronicus?
Drawing his sword
I wis it is not half way to her heart;
But you have out-faced them all.
Fore-thinking this, I have already fit--
What beast was't, then,
A married man! that's most intolerable.
Now all the service I require of them
Not one word more of the consumed time.
This was my dream: what it doth bode, God knows.
Thou sing'st sweet music. Hark, come hither, Tyrrel
Or thy affection cannot hold the bent;
Of gallant warriors, noble gentlemen.
O, she tore the letter into a thousand halfpence;
Yet, since it is but green, it should be put
And held in idle price to haunt assemblies
Nay, if you melt, then will she run mad.
But, soft! whom have we here?
No, mighty King of France: now Margaret
All those which were his fellows but of late,
Ay, but her forehead's low, and mine's as high.
When he shines by: I say again, thy spirit
'Run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames
Pray to the gods to intermit the plague
I will baffle Sir Toby, I will wash off gross
Your importunacy cease till after dinner,
Exit
Now marry in an instant.
Vouchsafe to those that have not read the story,
You have put me into rhyme.
What will become of me now, wretched lady!
O, thereby hangs a tail.
Giving to you no further personal power
Infect the sound pine and divert his grain
Gives Bassanio a letter
word too great for any mouth of this age's size. To
That they did wake each other: I stood and heard them:
His fairest daughter is contaminated.
Welcomed and settled to his own desire.
The under-hangman of his kingdom, and hated
The Fifth Knight passes over
I know my duty; you are all undutiful:
Since they do better thee in their command.
'Gainst thee, thou lamb, that standest as his prey.
politic; he crossed himself by 't: and I cannot
He finished indeed his mortal act
Our troops set forth to-morrow: stay with us;
Thirty fathom.
Kills LAVINIA
Make feasts, invite friends, and proclaim the banns;
O heavens, can you hear a good man groan,
Does he not wear a great round beard, like a
For it is known we were but hollow friends:
New come from Padua.
The next ensuing hour some foul mischance
By course of justice!
Thou canst not hit it, hit it, hit it,
Which I did think with slower foot came on,
But 'tis that miracle and queen of gems
Like one well studied in a sad ostent
The country gives me proof and precedent
charge of foot; and I know his death will be a
The counsellor heart, the arm our soldier,
Might have been mine! only I have left to say,
For shame! never stand 'you had rather' and 'you
he tell us his noble deeds, we must also tell him
Keep in a little life? Poor Jack, farewell!
Labeo and Flavius, set our battles on:
Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,
Is he at home?
For count of this, the count's a fool, I know it,
Tush, that was in thy rage:
PROLOGUE
Take heed, sirrah; the whip.
Exeunt
SCENE IV. Before GLOUCESTER's castle. KENT in the stocks.
That under covert and convenient seeming
Yes, but you will my noble grapes, an if
What to delight in, what to sorrow for.
A' could never abide carnation; 'twas a colour he
Ay, as an ostler, that for the poorest piece
Lo, in these windows that let forth thy life,
What a blunt fellow is this grown to be!
For I had rather wink than look on them.
The gallant, young and noble gentleman,
The jewel that we find, we stoop and take't
And practising upon his peace and quiet
Still as the grave. Shall she come in? were't good?--
Out of this world; tell him, in death I bless'd him,
unskilful singer; he kept not time.
Exeunt
Who should be trusted, when one's own right hand
Cargo, cargo, cargo, villiando par corbo, cargo.
it on a giant. Bring up the brown bills. O, well
Bid them farewell, Cordelia, though unkind:
With eyes as red as new-enkindled fire,
Razeth your cities and subverts your towns
The Duke of Suffolk is the first, and claims
The most opportune place, the strong'st suggestion.
I tell you, sir, she bears me fair in hand.
There's none stands under more calumnious tongues
Yield, my lord protector; yield, Winchester;
But fare thee well, most foul, most fair! farewell,
Shouting their emulation.
The king my father shall be made acquainted
O, courage, courage, princes! great Achilles
No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins.
'Tis warm at 's heart.
When Bolingbroke rode on roan Barbary,
Money, youth?
[To FERDINAND]  Ay, sweet my lord; and so I take my leave.
With thy black mantle; till strange love, grown bold,
Come, you are too severe a moraler: as the time,
fly?
Bestow your counsels on me: she now begs,
The very bottom and the soul of hope,
Thou teachest like a fool; the way to lose him.
O, one too much by thee! Why had I one?
And for your love to her lead apes in hell.
The letter is too long by half a mile.
A man that fortune's buffets and rewards
By flattery hath he won the commons' hearts,
To clothe mine age with angel-like perfection,
False justicer, why hast thou let her 'scape?
And after this let Caesar seat him sure;
If I would time expend with such a snipe.
Jove bless great Ajax!
they say barnes are blessings.
To their subsequent volumes, there is seen
To have him match'd; and if you please to like
A Roman.
Fell over the threshold and broke my shin.
Enter FERDINAND, LONGAVILLE, DUMAIN, BIRON, and Attendants
I did confess it, and exactly begg'd
SCENE II. LEONATO'S garden.
Either in snuffs and packings of the dukes,
With all her double vigour, art and nature,
With all good speed at Plashy visit me.
To keep my name ungored. But till that time,
Fearing to strengthen that impatience
What says our general?
Know, that to-morrow the last of many battles
You're welcome, gentlemen.
That grew the more by reaping: his delights
he hath framed a letter to a sequent of the stranger
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practise
You all did see that on the Lupercal
Whose horrid image doth unfix my hair
Makes me afeard.
I fear I am attended by some spies.
brought it?
Led us to Rome, strangers, and more than so,
Exit
What comfortable hour canst thou name,
Enter JULIET
And stole into the covert of the wood:
But in conclusion put strange speech upon me:
'Tis he and Cloten: malice and lucre in them
Norfolk, so far as to mine enemy:--
He's more secure to keep it shut than shown:
The time seems long; their blood
basin and ewer to-night. Flaminius, honest
stranger sense. Her matter was, she loved your son:
I pray you, one of you question yond man
I'll wear the willow garland for his sake.'
Doubt it not, worthy lord.
Approaching the door
That murder'd Pompey.
Come, sir, come;
It shall make honour for you.
Nor wrong mine age with this indignity.
Dies
the true and aunchient prerogatifes and laws of the
As we are mock'd with art.
Being none of his, refuse him: this concludes;
Why, sir, he comes not.
A little little grave, an obscure grave;
Fill me some wine.
Enter AGAMEMNON, AJAX, MENELAUS, NESTOR, DIOMEDES, and others, marching. Shouts within
Who loves another best.
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
Cries out upon abuses, seems to weep
Cornets, and exeunt
And so it is received. Now, pious sir,
Ho, by your leave!
Ay, my good lady, he.
Remember, as thou read'st, thy promise pass'd:
With ribands pendent, flaring 'bout her head;
Her dowery wealthy, and of worthy birth;
Out, out! My lords, an please you, 'tis not so;
Would blow you through and through.
My boon is, that this gentleman may render
Hang, cur! hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker!
As frankly as a pin.
Give mine the benefit of seniory,
Nay, but understand me.
To thee I pray; sweet Clifford, pity me!
By all description this should be the place.
Or for men's sake, the authors of these women,
Lord Junius Brutus sware for Lucrece' rape,
In number more than ever women spoke,
Than spotted livers in the sacrifice.
these rebels, they offend none but the virtuous: I
I fear it much; and I do fear besides,
As I have given out him. My sons, I must,
And if you cannot, best you stop your ears.
And what of him?
'Tis true; for Friar Laurence met them both,
Exeunt FALSTAFF and ROBIN
For amplest credence.
Without more motive, into every brain
Proud, disobedient, stubborn, lacking duty,
Among the nettles at the elder-tree
Pray you, go fit you to the custom and
He falls to such perusal of my face
Of youth and ignorance; both my revenge and hate
My tears shall wipe away these bloody marks;
Therefore, my lord, it highly us concerns
marry, yet 'tis a withered pear: will you anything with it?
So; lift there.
your honour.
for't. What players are they?
If thy rare qualities, sweet gentleness,
wrong to put you so oft upon 't: are there not men
Thou disputest like an infant: go, whip thy gig.
caitiffs left!
All our service
and the king shall live without an heir, if that
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
Men's evil manners live in brass; their virtues
DON
will go near to be thought so shortly. How answer
Where, by her own most clear remembrance, she
The seeming sufferances that you had borne,
May honourable peace attend thy throne!
And pall thee in the dunnest smoke of hell,
Thomas Cromwell;
You come for money?
No, to the death, we will not move a foot;
Can from the lap of Egypt's widow pluck
off.
Sir, I would advise you to shift a shirt; the
Thou hast not left the value of a cord;
At whose pleasure, friend
Unsavoury news! but how made he escape?
It did me yeoman's service: wilt thou know
Plucking the grass, to know where sits the wind,
I will report, so please you: these her women
the rod, and put'st down thine own breeches,
A great man should decline? Nay, an you weep,
Due to some single breast?
Ah, Clifford, murder not this innocent child,
Do your will.
So to esteem of us, and on our knees we beg,
suspicion is not without wit and judgment. But,
Take heed, for heaven's sake, take heed, lest at once
In that I live and for that will I die.
If that thy master would gain by thee,
like an old lecher's heart; a small spark, all the
myself. There's mine; beg another of thy daughters.
Exit
To come alone, either he so undertaking,
drowned; and these are devils: O defend me!
The king is in high rage.
only his gift is in devising impossible slanders:
ANTIPHOLUS
CASCA first, then the other Conspirators and BRUTUS stab CAESAR
I would prefer him to a better place.
O heavy ignorance! thou praisest the worst best.
in the world, I will hold a long distance. My duty
Ainsi dis-je; de elbow, de nick, et de sin. Comment
And Westmoreland, that was engaged, did bear it;
Enter a Messenger
Nor what is mine shall never do thee good:
SCENE VI. London. Cannon Street.
I charge thee do so, as thou art my child.
Re-enter Servant
No place will please me so, no mean of death,
To say so to my husband.
Of Canterbury, from that holy see?
The aediles, ho!
How dost thou, Benedick, the married man?
At least from fair five hundred pound a year:
And yet runn'st toward him still. Thou art not noble;
The rather, for I earnestly beseech,
Bore us some leagues to sea; where they prepared
Have burnt that tongue than said so.
But that I love the gentle Desdemona,
How say you?
What an eye she has! methinks it sounds a parley of
If thereon you rely. I'll take my leave.
He has much worthy blame laid upon him for shaking
And shall it in more shame be further spoken,
His son is thirty.
a thing of naught.
Belike, boy, then, you are in love; for last
But what of that? Demetrius thinks not so;
For, by thy gracious, golden, glittering gleams,
To kiss these lips, I will appear in blood;
But in what nature?
I could not personally deliver to her
And I, as sure as English Henry lives
My excellent good friends! How dost thou,
His father's acts commenced in burning Troy!
any in Italy, and as soon moved to be moody, and as
Kings are earth's gods; in vice their law's
[Awaking]  O Helena, goddess, nymph, perfect, divine!
Traitors, away! he rests not in this tomb:
That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile,
Set down, set down your honourable load,
Pluck up thy spirits; look cheerfully upon me.
You shall have wine enough, my lord, anon.
Then with the losers let it sympathize,
snorting like a horse.
Very hand of heaven.
Stain all your edges on me. Boy! false hound!
thousand tenants.
For 'twould have anger'd any heart alive
To murder me and my good Lord of Gloucester?
O, yes, my lord; he wore his beaver up.
And what strength I have's mine own,
Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish: I eat
'Tis easy to't; and there I will attend
Not of you.
And never brandish more revengeful steel
Before, I loved thee as a brother, John;
themselves, till they attain to their abhorred ends,
Kind my lord.
Get me ink and paper:
My lord, I warrant you we will play our part,
To them to use your signet and your name;
Away, away, good William de la Pole!
Of gallowglasses and stout kerns
almost six thousand years old, and in all this time
Enter JULIA and LUCETTA
never else cross me thus.
What says my brother?
That villain Hubert told me he did live.
Whiles yet the cool and temperate wind of grace
He loved her, sir, and loved her not.
is come after it indifferent well; for there is
I must tell thee, sirrah, I write man; to which
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
And throw't against the wind. To the market-place!
Ta'en of your many virtues, the king's majesty
But, sure, he's proud, and yet his pride becomes him:
Had our prince,
Ne'er through an arch so hurried the blown tide,
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
SCENE VIII. Southwark.
For I must ever doubt, though ne'er so sure--
Methinks, should not be chronicled for wise.
Which, when I know that boasting is an honour,
That has done worthy service.
That monthly changes in her circled orb,
in it five weeks without changing.
As, let 'em have their rights, they are ever forward--
It shall be so, it shall be so; let him away:
And rest myself content.
have answered to his reputation with the duke and to
But chiefly to take thence from her dead finger
For Hector in his blaze of wrath subscribes
And let Sebastian wake.' Say, this were death
We met him thitherward; for thence we came,
One o' these maids' girdles for your waist should be fit.
Well urged, my Lord of Warwick: or sweet prince,
He never can meet more mischance than come
That long have frown'd upon their enmity!
But, though I loved you well, I woo'd you not;
Your plaintain-leaf is excellent for that.
figures in all things. Alexander, God knows, and
No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
Caesar, all hail! good morrow, worthy Caesar:
And that Count Claudio did mean, upon his words, to
Throw death upon thy sovereign's enemies.
A truant disposition, good my lord.
Sticks deeper, grows with more pernicious root
O, come, Ventidius,
Rather than bloody war shall cut them short,
Unmuffling
The watery kingdom, whose ambitious head
Not like a woman; for I would prevent
night,--I tell this tale vilely:--I should first
Ay, with my dagger in their bosoms, grandsire.
Enter OLIVER
Obedience: for so work the honey-bees,
Broke oath on oath, committed wrong on wrong,
Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK, train, and LE BEAU
Why, then, Lord Talbot there shall talk with him
And live alone as secret as I may.
Think every bearded fellow that's but yoked
And give it way: I know thou canst not choose.
O, my sweet beef, I must still be good angel to
And he that throws not up his cap for joy
So little of his great self.
Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage; and,
marriage binds and blood breaks: a poor virgin,
And pull'd the law upon you.
Like humble-visaged suitors, his high will.
If wives do fall: say that they slack their duties,
Alas, the sea hath cast me on the rocks,
Run, go, help, help! O Henry, ope thine eyes!
My noble partners, and myself, thus pray:
I shall, between this and supper, tell you most
To Attendants
My lord, I'll hit him now.
Proclaim an enshield beauty ten times louder
My noble gossips, ye have been too prodigal:
Success unto our valiant general,
Call all his noble captains to my lord.
And that unaptness made your minister,
And have a thousand times more cause than he
My lord, you take us even at the best.
rascally sheep-biter come by some notable shame?
Ay, as the glasses where they view themselves;
Of wisdom, gravity, profound conceit,
Lest I might anger thee.
Why, then he will say we stabbed him sleeping.
Ay, my lord, this same.
merchandise do sinfully miscarry upon the sea, the
Exit Soothsayer
Seeing ARTHUR
Bless me from marrying a usurer!
And dout them with superfluous courage, ha!
God shall be truly known; and those about her
Or as one nail by strength drives out another,
I cannot but be sad; so heavy sad
A woman's story at a winter's fire,
me: no, nor woman neither, though by your smiling
Upon my soul,'tis true, sir.
Was graft with crab-tree slip; whose fruit thou art,
We will do it.
Of its right father. Blossom, speed thee well!
Agamemnon is a fool; Achilles is a fool; Thersites
My horse to yours, no.
make him believe thou art Sir Topas the curate: do
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
Well-a-day that you were, sir
beyond credit,--
What, villain boy!
But mine own safeties. You may be rightly just,
So be my grave my peace, as here I give
There is more news:
blushes of hers must be quenched with some present practise.
If every of your wishes had a womb.
Yes, if it please your majesty.
Fortune, that arrant whore,
head, and show the world what the bird hath done to
I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
Here is a mourning Rome, a dangerous Rome,
Where do you dwell?
I am provided of a torch-bearer.
I did think, by the excellent constitution of thy
By the hand of a soldier, I will undertake it.
O, sir, we doubt it not.
To be another's fool. I would be gone:
Up, princes! and, with spirit of honour edged
You have paid the heavens your function, and the
Not black in my mind, though yellow in my legs. It
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
Who chants a doleful hymn to his own death,
Brutus, thou sleep'st: awake!'
As venerable Nestor, hatch'd in silver,
Exeunt
garments were come. She said upon a time--the
Fear none of this: I think you know my fortunes
They do discharge their shot of courtesy:
If it be that--
bed, and dream on the event. Farewell.
Be pleased awhile.
You see how all conditions, how all minds,
Ay, like a dastard and a treacherous coward,
SCENE II. A street.
Well, God give her good rest! What hath he sent her?
And it is very much lamented, Brutus,
And so extenuate the 'forehand sin:
SCENE II. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Exit
Ay, two hours together.
The proof of it will turn to redder drops. Look;
heavens; he shows me where the bachelors sit, and
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
To lie that way thou go'st, not whence thou comest:
Keep my need up, and faith is trodden down!
Exit, dragged off by Soldiers
Shall make it live again. Woo't thou fight well?
Shortcake upon All-hallowmas last, a fortnight
Pray, be counsell'd:
Exit
His ready sense; then straight his doubled spirit
To brave the tribune in his brother's hearing.
If you go on thus, you will kill yourself:
Unless a thousand marks be levied,
And, part, being prompted by your present trouble,
For you must be our housewife.
Shakes the old beldam earth and topples down
But grow like savages,--as soldiers will
And I a maid at your window,
Exeunt LADY ANNE, TRESSEL, and BERKELEY
loves Troilus,--
smooth; so that, having neither the voice nor the
Smells wooingly here: no jutty, frieze,
you out of reprieve and pardon.
What is the reason that you use me thus?
Since he hath got the jewel that I loved,
If that I could for weeping, you should hear,--
I give you welcome with a powerless hand,
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day:
Enter below, multitudes, with halters about their necks
Aside
a coward, but he's the very devil incardinate.
of herself is a good lady and would not have knaves
To Edward, but not to the English king.
Out, varlet, from my sight!
Though we have spent our harvest of this king,
I have heard it said so. O, these men, these men!
I'll hold my mind, were she an Ethiope.
How canst thou tell she will deny thy suit,
That which I shall report will bear no credit,
To walk where any honest man resort.
Enter SATURNINUS, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON,  Lords, and others; SATURNINUS with the arrows in his hand that TITUS shot
I cry you mercy, 'tis but Quid for Quo.
Trumpets sound. Enter MARK ANTONY and EROS; a Soldier meeting them
Which ye shall never have while I live.
For wisdom's sake, a word that all men love,
and how he goes! O admirable youth! he ne'er saw
Not having the power to do the good it would,
she was of Carthage, not of Tunis.
know than comes from her demand out of the letter.
One minute, nay, one quiet breath of rest.
That can with some discretion do my business,
make thine own self the conquest of thy fury: wert
Re-enter second Gentleman
For he will never follow any thing
There without ransom to lie forfeited;
man.
This guest of summer,
Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none;
Gratiano and Lorenzo. Fare ye well:
He does deny him, in respect of his,
For any thing he shall be charged withal:
how honour would become such a person. that it was
SCENE I. London. KING RICHARD II's palace.
They whistle
but be merry? for, look you, how cheerfully my
I care not for thee, Kate: this is no world
I said, an elder soldier, not a better:
And touching now the point of human skill,
I render, for my brethren's obsequies;
With boot, and such addition as your honours
I would have sworn it had, my lord; especially
Than plural faith which is too much by one:
Holds in his blood such swoln and hot discourse
Then bid me kill myself, and I will do it.
times upon far poorer moment: I do think there is
Then let my father's blood open it again:
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
He is not sick.
That ever love did make thee run into,
than to either of these. God defend me from these
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
fits you, search out of the calendar, and nobody
To you, my lord, I come, what lord you will,
Here comes the fool, i' faith.
No,'tis to thyself.
That grew upon my lips: then laid his leg
this gross watery pumpion; we'll teach him to know
you with a good name: to be a well-favoured man is
The testimony on my part no other
As, by a lower but loving likelihood,
less welcome.
Let us rather
way then to unfool me again? Set down the basket,
And show me to the shouting varletry
Peace, ho, for shame! confusion's cure lives not
The fold stands empty in the drowned field,
So. What trade are you of, sir?
Exeunt
Thy spirit walks abroad and turns our swords
The Duke of Somerset, whom he terms traitor.
[Above]  How now, mine host!
Draws, and wounds RODERIGO
my every action to be guided by others' experiences:
Away, I say; I charge ye, bear her hence.
Exeunt FORD, PAGE, SHALLOW, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
I am freely dissolved, and dissolutely.
for him, then spit at him; that I drave my suitor
Nay, Master Page, be not impatient.
They could not speak; and so I left them both,
Lo, how hollow the fiend speaks within him! did not
Seditious to his grace and to the state.
is sweet. Nay, you shall fight your hearts out ere
News, friends; our wars are done, the Turks
She shall go with him: her mother hath intended,
If he be put upon 't; and that's as easy
Exeunt
That I have worn a visor and could tell
The King of Naples, being an enemy
letter: it was given me by Costard, and sent me
I have said.
To break the heart of generosity,
And therefore, lords, since he affects her most,
No faith, no honesty in men; all perjured,
The running of one glass.
open't. So, let's see: it was told me I should be
God ye good morrow, gentlemen.
testament; with that I will go buy my fortunes.
O, is it so? But why commands the king
Defacers of a public peace, than I do.
There's yet one good in ten.
desired in the hearts of his subjects: I would fain
Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, GLOUCESTER, CARDINAL, and SUFFOLK, with Falconers halloing
No danger in what show of death it makes,
Where we're offenders now, appear soul-vex'd,
Your master's confidence was above mine;
world; but yet she is not well.
Forgiveness, horse! why do I rail on thee,
O Dorset, speak not to me, get thee hence!
You show too much of that
You would not make me such an argument.
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
the bricks are alive at this day to testify it;
Are we not brothers?
Alack, for pity!
To thy further fear,
Sir, grieve not you; you are welcome notwithstanding.
Retires to his cave
Upon this ground; and more it would content me
ACT I
Very good. Give it nothing, I pray you, for it is
To whom with all submission, on my knee
Now, good Cesario, but that piece of song,
Of us must Pompey presently be sought,
So say I	methinks you are sadder.
His brother's death at Bristol, the Lord Scroop.
SCENE II. A room in Titus's house. A banquet set out.
I remember
Than all the rest, discharged me with these words:
Your oath once broke, you force not to forswear.
comes there any more of it?
Take away his weapon. Fellow, thank God, and the
And yet, I warrant, it had upon its brow
Be such a gosling to obey instinct, but stand,
And all that love his follies.
Shall come against him.
And sing while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep;
I warrant your honour.
Those that Hobgoblin call you and sweet Puck,
I have heard in some sort of thy miseries.
For we must measure twenty miles to-day.
'Twill grieve your grace my sons should call you father.
O, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
Envied against the people, seeking means
In the dead vast and middle of the night,
answered him well.
speaks brave words, swears brave oaths and breaks
And makes milch-kine yield blood and shakes a chain
But whilst this muddy vesture of decay
Is Antony again, I will be Cleopatra.
into seeming knowledge, when we should submit
Re-enter MISTRESS FORD with two Servants
grace was said.
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you:
Chiefly that I might set it in my prayers--
[Aside]  I know them all, though they suppose me mad,
Here's the smell of the blood still: all the
Which, hatch'd, would, as his kind, grow mischievous,
Master Slender had her; or, in sooth, I would Master
Re-enter ARIEL, loaden with glistering apparel,  and c
Let us have knowledge at the court of guard.
To such proceeding
As fast as they are made, forgot as soon
So sought'st to hinder.
creeping thing.
'tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
Well, you'll still be too forward.
Fall, when Love please! marry, to each, but one!
My lord, his throat is cut; that I did for him.
When time hath sow'd a grizzle on thy case?
Then doth it well appear that Salique law
the house with the narrow gate, which I take to be
In high-born words the worth of many a knight
I'll take thy word for faith, not ask thine oath:
But in the balance of great Bolingbroke,
Solicit for it straight.
you shall be called to no more payments, fear no
I found her trimming up the diadem
Of the whole body: but, if you do remember,
lady, and her death shall fall heavy on you. Let me
For saying nothing; when, I am very sure,
That more for praise than purpose meant to kill.
Make that thy question, and go rot!
exceeding heavy.
Would for Carnarvonshire, although there long'd
Not on thy sole, but on thy soul, harsh Jew,
You are welcome all.
Or, if his mind be writ, give me his letter.
king, and the dukes: it is no time to discourse. The
As merry as you will.
Of this vile politician, Bolingbroke.
And make thy weapon drop.
We both have fed as well, and we can both
And fell so roundly to a large confession,
Such news, my lord, as grieves me to unfold.
Enter a Messenger
Are all too dear for me: lie they upon thy hand,
Beaufort's red sparkling eyes blab his heart's malice,
Lay
On both our parts. Call yonder fellow hither.
Which contradicts my accusation and
Well may I get aboard! This is the chase:
O, cut my lace in sunder, that my pent heart
In pleasing smiles such murderous tyranny.
If you submit you to the people's voices,
Upon his party.
Flies after BIANCA
Trust me, a good knot: I have good cheer at home;
Doing annoyance to the treacherous feet
think my brother happy in having what he wishes for.
Varro's
I'ld not have show'd it.
Go, gentleman, every man unto his charge
And most assured that he is a friend
With leave, Bassanio: I am half yourself,
Achilles bids me say, he is much sorry,
Even as her appetite shall play the god
him truly that will put me in trust: to love him
and admiring the nothing of it. So that in this
That I wish well. 'Tis pity--
When he that speaks them pleases those that hear.
blind Cupid.
Come on--you hear this fellow in the cellarage--
Speak to Mistress Page.
I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
Exeunt all except BENEDICK and CLAUDIO
Of what I feel: I am all patience.
That would make good of bad, and friends of foes!
Came smiling, and did bathe their hands in it:
That men shall swear I have discontinued school
Whose nature is so far from doing harms,
My wife, my liege! I shall beseech your highness,
Hear me, good madam.
Exit
For thou shalt find she will outstrip all praise
O Antony,
wondrous fat marriage.
Delay leads impotent and snail-paced beggary
They, for their truth, might better wear their heads
To be your comforter when he is gone.
Will come when it will come.
ACT III
A woman well-reputed, Cato's daughter.
no more valour in that Poins than in a wild-duck.
What pageantry, what feats, what shows,
Resolve my doubt. You twain, of all the rest,
Fear not that, I warrant thee. Come, let's march
Ne'er to pluck thee from thy thorn;
So brainsickly of things. Go get some water,
Grow from the king's acquaintance, by this carriage.
I have known my husband; yet my husband
Henceforth I charge you, as you love our favour,
speak. Sweet, say on.
I am loath to beat thee.
Hath left mine arm: it was thy master's: 'shrew me,
My duty pricks me on to utter that
Away, you trifler! Love! I love thee not,
You are a lover; borrow Cupid's wings,
Who, as I hear, mean to solicit him
silver and lead, whereof who chooses his meaning
Nerissa teaches me what to believe:
All ports I'll bar; the villain shall not 'scape;
But be extirped from our provinces.
And rather comfort his distressed plight
Ay, in truth, my lord;
Thou sayest true, hostess; and he slanders thee most grossly.
And put yourself under his shrowd,
be hang'd:
As one incapable of her own distress,
Is so from sense in hardness, that I can
but yet I will be content to be a lawful hangman. I
eight. Will you pluck your sword out of his pitcher
And, to be noted for a merry man,
daughters, of what complexion soever; and so buffets
I think not of them:
Most truly limn'd and living in your face,
me, that of this I may speak more. If our father
Zeal and obedience he still bore your grace,
am above thee; but be not afraid of greatness: some
Diminish'd to her cock; her cock, a buoy
How lost thou them? Thy name, my most kind virgin?
Now, fellows, you are welcome.
Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend,
Exit BIANCA
Your son-in-law is far more fair than black.
In this self-place where now we mean to stand.
That I crave death more willingly than mercy;
Wherein the fortune of ten thousand men
We came hither to fight with you.
Is he come back? Love, I am full of lead.
were cast away before us even now.
O, my old master! who hath bound him here?
Improper for a slave.
The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream
Heavens, have I said, the bounty of this lord!
Enter URSULA
And with some other business put the king
Soft, Caesar!
That now thou tirest on, how thy memory
Agreed: I'll to yond corner.
Thou hast undone our mother.
I know my lord hath spent of Timon's wealth,
And to be baited with the rabble's curse.
Be sacrificed, some hour before his time,
To murder me?
The seas wax'd calm, and we discovered
Here Goths have given me leave to sheathe my sword.
done! Answer, clerk.
examined? let them come before master constable.
Then, good my liege, let me have what is mine,
Had he not reason, Lord Demetrius?
The fitter, then, the gods should have her. Here
thrown into the Thames, and cooled, glowing hot,
ends my catechism.
Combine together 'gainst the enemy;
Holla! Bernardo!
For honour's cause, forbear your suffrages:
Pucelle hath bravely play'd her part in this,
Madam, he's well.
Let us be wary, let us hide our loves;'
Sweet father, cease your tears; for, at your grief,
I would fain say, bleed tears, for I am sure my
Last thing he did, dear queen,
And kill him in the shell.
Remain in't as thou mayst.
I can no more.
For such a sum from special officers
wit that fools have was silenced, the little foolery
Bring me my boots: I will unto the king.
not very well: nay, I think it is scurvy, and begin
Aim'd at your highness, no inveterate malice.
The law against it! But that her tender shame
Than that conferr'd on Goneril. Now, our joy,
That he quit being, and his gentle lady,
Is but his steward: no meed, but he repays
The Duke of Norfolk, sprightfully and bold,
Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR and OCTAVIA
So her dead likeness, I do well believe,
What duke should that be comes so secretly? I hear
Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?
But soft, but see, or rather do not see,
And straight is cold again.
Where is my lady's lord, where's Romeo?
Of you, my noble cousin, Lord Aumerle;
Without a prompter. Where will you that I go
A trim exploit, a manly enterprise,
With all my heart. This fellow I remember,
The sun not yet thy sighs from heaven clears,
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
To be produced--as, if I stay, I shall--
Is he married?
And, Richard, do not frown upon my faults,
And take down the interest into their
To LONGAVILLE
I'll wrestle with you in my strength of love:
It is a peerless kinsman.
Though by the tenor of our strict edict,
SONG
Which are too intrinse t' unloose; smooth every passion
And, as I hear, the great commanding Warwick
Became a bricklayer when he came to age:
There is an air comes from her: what fine chisel
Familiarly shall call thy Dorset brother;
Thy hand hath murder'd him: I had a mighty cause
From whence he intercepted did return
To whom they are directed. If you knew
A stanchless avarice that, were I king,
Exit PRINCE HENRY
But if my frosty signs and chaps of age,
butter-woman's mouth and buy myself another of
Enter QUEEN MARGARET and PRINCE EDWARD
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Exeunt
damned for killing him, from which no warrant can defend us.
game of tick-tack. I'll to her.
Proceed to judgment: by my soul I swear
What boots it thee to call thyself a sun?
have greatness thrust upon 'em. Thy Fates open
For since these arms of mine had seven years' pith,
Alas, then, she is drown'd?
Beg of her for remedy.
I am not sorry neither: I'ld have thee live;
O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a
me see, let me see, let me see.
Rend off thy silver hair, thy other hand
What darest thou venture?
Receives rebuke from Norway, and in fine
Lady, with me, with me thy fortune lies.
Tailor, I'll pay thee for thy gown tomorrow:
The king hath granted every article:
And other chosen attractions, would allure,
Good my lord, pardon me:
I'll have no worse a name than Jove's own page;
This is the tenor of the emperor's writ:
What valiant foemen, like to autumn's corn,
Why, every day, to-morrow. Come, go in:
Tush, thou art deceived:
And shake the peace and safety of our throne.
I' the virtue of your daughter: one being dead,
That capability and god-like reason
'Tis more, 'tis more, his son is elder, sir;
He be as miserably slain as I.
Hail, worthy Timon!
And point by point the treasons of his master
A counterpoise, if not to thy estate
down; my husband will come into the chamber.
Of virtue was she; yea, and she herself.
take his bond.
You would all this time have proved there is no
And treats of Tereus' treason and his rape:
Good man, sit down. Now let me see the proudest
Ay, ay, Antipholus, look strange and frown:
I did in time collect myself and thought
Whereof thy proud child, arrogant man, is puff'd,
Will you hear't again?
I shall obey, my lord.
That the probation bear no hinge nor loop
It skills not much. we'll fit him to our turn,--
My parts, my title and my perfect soul
Lord Angelo hath to the public ear
Hath power enough to serve our turn. But who comes here?
The life o' the need: having found the backdoor open
But in the mean time he wants less, my lord.
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
To his own hand, in's bedchamber.
Uplift us to the view; in their thick breaths,
cannot be denied what I have done by land.
Should be to be protected like a child.
He hath a garden circummured with brick,
As from a blushing handmaid, to his highness;
borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how
On any ground that I am ruler of,
Let him be Caesar.
Thou villain base,
ever was known in the commonwealth.
Order the trial, marshal, and begin.
Hath no self-love, nor he that loves himself
The world, who of itself is peised well,
As would, but that they dare not, take our parts.
And let my spleenful sons this trull deflow'r.
As deputy unto that gracious king,
But yet so just that he will not revenge.
This way the coverlet, another way the sheets:
Tend me to-night two hours, I ask no more,
like, which else would stand under grievous
Let that go:
Follow me, then.
Contagious fogs; which falling in the land
My lord, you do not well in obstinacy
For their own good and ours.
Clerk-like experienced, which no less adorns
Could to no issue of true honour bring.
And give true evidence to his love, which stands
With those legions
The which is good in nothing but in sight!
As will not leave their tinct.
Full of sad thoughts and troubles.
have his wit this year.
And not against his friends; his noble hand
March on, join bravely, let us to't pell-mell
Those be rubies, fairy favours,
Of such as have before endured the like.
What place? what time? what form? what likelihood?
Will bring this labour to an happy end.
With such loud reason to the Cyprus wars,
O Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on thee?
And, for that dowry, I'll assure her of
Brother, we will proclaim you out of hand:
That he dined not at home, but was lock'd out.
Nay, good Ajax.
Be warned by me, then: they that ride so and ride
To guard the chicken from a hungry kite,
All's well; and might have been much better, if
by my coming. Every man has his fault, and honesty
Expect Saint Martin's summer, halcyon days,
cannot be that Desdemona should long continue her
Have with you to see this monster.
Among the crowd i' the Abbey; where a finger
your reproach.
That surfeit on their ease, will day by day
Yes, my good lord;
Enter KING EDWARD IV and a Huntsman with him
Cry 'No recovery.'
Than where castles mounted stand.
But Exeter hath given the doom of death
The people 'twixt Philippi and this ground
Our Britain seems as of it, but not in 't;
Sweet queen, sweet queen! that's a sweet queen, i' faith.
By gar, you are de coward, de Jack dog, John ape.
my heart will be blown up by the root.
There is differency between a grub and a butterfly;
How now, Pisanio!
How some men creep in skittish fortune's hall,
I'll show thee every fertile inch o' th' island;
Speak, speak.
child. We have seen the best of our time:
M,--but then there is no consonancy in the sequel;
No leisure had he to enrank his men;
Nay, this shall not hedge us out: we'll hear you
Let me read them.
Dumb jewels often in their silent kind
I hope the king made peace with all of us
Let it not be believed for womanhood!
There hath been in Rome strange insurrections; the
Rascals should have 't. Do not assume my likeness.
too.
purse. If thou wilt needs damn thyself, do it a
Who finds the partridge in the puttock's nest,
Thou tremblest at, answer that I shall ask;
yourself? Why, do you not perceive the jest?
Provoked by my offence.
She gave me none, except an angry word.
To say as I said then! But, come, away;
throwing him into the water will do him a benefit.
Come, cousin you shall be the messenger.
Pursued my life.
Our youth got me to play the woman's part,
Carthage?
Nay, good troth.
Like vassalage at unawares encountering
I am for you.
loved her: the ballad is very pitiful and as true.
And why, I pray you? Who might be your mother,
With trembling wings misdoubteth every bush;
He shall in strangeness stand no further off
You have some sick offence within your mind,
your lordship.
Be of good comfort; for the great supply
With rigorous hands: he hath resisted law,
That truth should be suspected. Speak, is't so?
you make it speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am
And call her hourly mistress. Who was with him?
Some devil whisper curses in mine ear,
From my remembrance clearly banish'd his.
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Madam, so I did.
he be a whoremonger, and comes before him, he were
fortune-telling. She works by charms, by spells,
Can bide the beating of so strong a passion
men.
Then thus. Baptista is safe, talking with the
Peace, impudent and shameless Warwick, peace,
Why have you stol'n upon us thus! You come not
Hark, how they knock! Who's there? Romeo, arise;
Fear not, my lord: that Power that made you king
And now to Helen is it home return'd,
Never tell him, my lord: let her wear it out with
Make yourself mirth with your particular fancy,
mornings; what should that bode?
We'll know all our fortunes.
Time hath not yet so dried this blood of mine,
[Aside]  How like a dream is this I see and hear!
Adieu, good Sir Hugh.
Now, by thy looks
Did he so often lodge in open field,
here, sir; a man of four-score pound a year; whose
To his conveyance I assign my wife,
Or I am much deceived, cuckolds ere now;
And graves have yawn'd, and yielded up their dead;
And bid it pass?
Enter a third Gentleman
And such a twain can do't, in which I bind,
ANTIPHOLUS
That now hath seized them; why, they were no worse
You are too indulgent. Let us grant, it is not
O, do not slander him, for he is kind.
be done; damns himself to do and dares better be
When shepherds pipe on oaten straws
A better prince and benign lord,
I am satisfied.
A gentleman.
person than any of us all.
Vouchsafe, bright moon, and these thy stars, to shine,
She looks scornfully at him
And quench the fire, the room is grown too hot.
GLOUCESTER and CLARENCE retire
Thou shalt be then freer than a gaoler; no bolts for the dead.
'Tis pity they should take him for a stag.
She had her breeding at my father's charge.
Well, I conceive.
My lord, for aught I know.
Be friends awhile and both conjointly bend
What, art thou afraid?
Enter FALSTAFF and PISTOL
What, upon compulsion? 'Zounds, an I were at the
will what have we here! Mercy on 's, a barne a very
What news abroad i' the world?
That hath in it no profit but the name.
'Faith, no; as you may season it in the charge
Who lives and dares but say thou didst not well
Remove these thoughts from you: the which before
I am out o' friends, madam; and I hope to have
By heaven, I would do it.
The low Posthumus slanders so her judgment
o' the way?
That have their alms out of the empress' chest.
A traitor to his God, his king and him;
Much more a knight, a captain and a leader.
And whither fly the gnats but to the sun?
Do botch and bungle up damnation
And then the moon, like to a silver bow
Exeunt
Knock,
Hang over thee, as, sure, it shortly will;
But longer did we not retain much hope;
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
And ears so cloy'd importantly as now,
Foh! prithee, stand away: a paper from fortune's
What noise?
see you at my death. Notwithstanding, use your
Witness, how dear I hold this confirmation.
Do I take part: the rarer action is
marry, and amen! Give me a cup of sack, boy. Ere I
Make thee the father of their idle dreams
To lose so bad employment; in the which
So, with two seeming bodies, but one heart;
See, Buckingham, Somerset comes with the queen:
methinks, is the curse dependent on those that war
Well, then, go you into hell?
And I had his, sir Robert's his, like him;
Tire on the flesh of me and of my son!
mother looks, and my father died within these two hours.
And take a bond of fate: thou shalt not live;
You have broke it, cousin: and, by my life, you
And with his former title greet Macbeth.
Out of mine own; his days and times are past
Which way would Hector have it?
Yet execute thy wrath in me alone,
Have died had I not made it.
The eye of majesty.
But, if we live, we'll be as sharp with you.
Take up this good old man, and cheer the heart
I love them as they weigh.
The devil damn thee black, thou cream-faced loon!
Away with Oxford to Hames Castle straight:
To me can life be no commodity:
Look, here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers.
I am thy prisoner: wilt thou suffer them
Let's be no stoics nor no stocks, I pray;
expertness in wars; or whether he thinks it were not
I have a truant been to chivalry;
And pity 'tis you lived at odds so long.
[To ISABELLA]  If he be like your brother, for his sake
Exeunt all the Commoners
With twenty watchful, weary, tedious nights:
Let shame come when it will, I do not call it:
Weigh it but with the grossness of this age,
Enter TYBALT
untie. Here comes Patroclus.
I never did thee harm: why wilt thou slay me?
What wouldst thou have to Athens?
Dared once to touch a dust of England's ground?
[Roaring]  Oh--
Which here you come to accuse.
Enter MALVOLIO
Have not saints lips, and holy palmers too?
the peace: you have showed yourself a wise
We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need,
What are your pleasures with me, reverend lords?
And in his wisdom hastes our marriage,
High-stomach'd are they both, and full of ire,
A march afar
It would become me better than to close
Is that she will not add to her damnation
Nay, I prithee, put on this gown and this beard;
This is not much.
Enter, below, MARCUS ANDRONICUS and Tribunes; re-enter SATURNINUS and BASSIANUS, attended
As precious eyesight, and did value me
An 'twere to give again,--but 'tis no matter.
And says a wizard told him that by G
appropriation to his own good parts, that he can
About the wood go swifter than the wind,
To the way she's forced to.
me yare; for truly, sir, for your kindness I owe you
They might have lived to bear and he to taste
And never going aright, being a watch,
The moment on't; for't must be done to-night,
And gave the tongue a helpful ornament,
Talk with a ruffian at her chamber-window
That he is thus cut off. Please it your honours
Changed to a worser shape thou canst not be.
This shame derives itself from unknown loins'?
It may be you have mistaken him, my lord.
Exit CICERO
Dead.
And here, with all good will, with all my heart,
The household of the king.
I' the name of fame and honour; which dies i'
Contending with the fretful element:
Do me this right; hear me with patience.
See see, my beauty will be saved by merit!
Sauf votre honneur, me understand vell.
I say, it is not lost.
thing that I have commanded thee: the third is,
Doth add more grief to too much of mine own.
No man bears sorrow better. Portia is dead.
Rosaline; Livia; Signior Valentio and his cousin
But as a discontented friend, grief-shot
Yea, mock the lion when he roars for prey,
Suggest his soon-believing adversaries,
SCENE III. Edward's camp, near Warwick.
I know not; but
the poor. If the wars eat us not up, they will; and
O Silius, Silius,
Was yours by accident; had it gone with us,
Cries, ah, ha! to the devil:
a kiss in fee-farm! build there, carpenter; the air
Adorn his temples with a coronet,
To raise my state to title of a queen,
As slippery as the Gordian knot was hard!
If he had gone forth consul, found it so.
Of which, my lord, your honour is the last.
Come, let us go; and pray to all the gods
Enter AARON
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, DOLABELLA, MECAENAS, GALLUS, PROCULEIUS, and others, his council of war
From when this stream through muddy passages
not with love: prove that ever I lose more blood
Enter KING HENRY IV, PRINCE HENRY, and others
SCENE III. The tent of Coriolanus.
You'll find it wholesome. Lo, where comes that rock
Or by what means got'st thou to be released?
O, would the quarrel lay upon our heads,
And violenteth in a sense as strong
Walk'd crowns and crownets; realms and islands were
But that our honours must not. What's to say?
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and LEPIDUS
Now God in heaven bless thee! Hark you, sir.
I be not thine. To this I am most constant,
me!
Feast-won, fast-lost; one cloud of winter showers,
And therefore frame the law unto my will.
and here, Tom, take all the money that I have. O
call me so.
Gentle Lavinia, let me kiss thy lips.
Or is the adder better than the eel,
Fie on sinful fantasy!
the very next turning, turn of no hand, but turn
hath he provided this music?
And then I'll set upon him.
and a head-stall of sheeps leather which, being
But she received my dog?
Not mad, but bound more than a mad-man is;
But I do think it is their husbands' faults
entering, that if any crave redress of injustice,
Prove true, imagination, O, prove true,
Here, take: the gods out of my misery
That what he speaks is all in debt; he owes
Find in myself no pity to myself?
Ay, noble Titus; and resolved withal
No, sir, I live by the church.
Exit
In that one woman I have lost for ever:
I will discharge it in either your straw-colour
And, now the matter grows to compromise,
'Tis, marvel, but that you are but newly come,
So good a quarrel and so bad a peer.
that dwells with him, dwell with him or no?
thee the bucklers.
To dress thy meat myself and bring it thee:
That hunger broke stone walls, that dogs must eat,
Re-enter BIONDELLO
Since Henry's death, I fear, there is conveyance.
These hands do lack nobility, that they strike
Than where castles mounted stand.'
And for our eyes do hate the dire aspect
As I learn'd,
Hath made me publisher of this pretence.
What, talking with a priest, lord chamberlain?
Exit GURNEY
Is leaning cheek to cheek? is meeting noses?
The former Hero! Hero that is dead!
The Dauphin Charles is crowned king of Rheims;
And, if I fall not in my deep intent,
Articles are borrowed of the pronoun, and be thus
So I say.
What impossible matter will he make easy next?
Dost thou think I have no sense, thou strikest me thus?
Who shall say me nay?
His sons, he says, shall give their words for him.
But were the day come, I should wish it dark,
His taints and honours
What, fifty of my followers at a clap!
Edward the Duke of York, the Earl of Suffolk,
There's no more to be said, but he is banish'd,
O, world, how apt the poor are to be proud!
Ay, we may march in England or in France,
Here comes my son Aumerle.
What scene of death hath Roscius now to act?
Who gently would dissolve the bands of life,
Here comes the emperor.
Rise Richard, like a true Plantagenet,
Nay look not so upon me; we shall hear of your
Ay, beauty's princely majesty is such,
These broken limbs again into one body;
As they had seen me with these hangman's hands.
And breathe twice and cry 'so, so,'
grave of it.
Be she as foul as was Florentius' love,
This palpable-gross play hath well beguiled
How hast thou offended?
Come, sir: did you set these women on to slander
Enter GREEN
there, ho!
From top of honour to disgrace's feet?
That comes in triumph over Pompey's blood? Be gone!
Where is she? and how doth she? and what says
I am that flower,--
Which none but heaven and you and I shall hear.
Do we all holy rites;
Though tongues were out of use.
And by and by a cloud takes all away!
I'll weringly to him: to gain his colour
For when would you, my lord, or you, or you,
Whose mind and mine, I know, in that are one,
To wake our peace, which in our country's cradle
Even to my wish: I have a letter from her
With sainted vow my faults to have amended.
Why, sir, I'll strike nothing: I pray you,--
'In her excellent white bosom, these,  and c.'
Exeunt MACBETH and LENNOX
Send out more horses; skirr the country round;
But, sir, here comes your boy;
Enter Ghost
Would not be purged, she sent you word she was dead;
spit in his face, so she defied him.
'Thus didest thou.'
And have not those soft parts of conversation
for here comes the trout that must be caught with tickling.
Let Ajax go to him.
To stop his ears against admonishment?
Exit CHARLES
Tripping up his heels
Which my dead father did bequeath to me.
I came yonder from a great supper: the prince your
Lie there, my art. Wipe thou thine eyes; have comfort.
Whose towers bore heads so high they kiss'd the clouds,
And if he speak of Buckingham, pray, tell him
And know how well I have deserved the ring,
A parcel of their fortunes; and things outward
You'll have enough.
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
As thou shalt be, if thou didst kill this child.
Poor painted queen, vain flourish of my fortune!
Was not a man my father? Hadst thou foxship
Enter AMIENS, JAQUES, and others
It was my hint to speak,--such was the process;
miry a place, how she was bemoiled, how he left her
A man that all his time
Unto the body of a dismal yew,
And still rest thine. The storm begins; poor wretch,
That ever I should live to see thee dead!
Pots, and, I think, forty more; all great doers in
While the beast lived, was killed with hunting him.
He has my heart yet; and shall have my prayers
Where hast been, Hal?
I am not of your wrong. Therefore in him
saying is, the third pays for all: the triplex,
And in her heart she scorns our poverty:
I dare not know, my lord.
Losing his verdure even in the prime
Most palates theirs. They choose their magistrate,
With all his might
followers.
There is no day for me to look upon;
Stuffs out his vacant garments with his form;
Such harmony is in immortal souls;
fellows and betray themselves to every modern
Then what should war be? This fell whore of thine
Look back into your mighty ancestors:
Our souls religiously confirm thy words.
Well, on: Mistress Ford, you say,--
you, here comes my Rosalind.
No Achilles with him.
His breeches cost him but a crown;
Unmerciful lady as you are, I'm none.
To guide our measure round about the tree.
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
[Aside]  Glamis, and thane of Cawdor!
should I say to him? I was then frugal of my
His love.
And we shall have more wars before 't be long.
As who should say, if I should sleep or eat,
by wearing his apparel neatly.
Execute all things; for no kind of traffic
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
Alack that Leonine was so slack, so slow!
Do not draw the curtain.
See that he be convey'd unto the Tower:
Do all lie there: it shall be so my care
Most absolute lord,
privy marks I had about me, as, the mark of my
Our children and our sins lay on the king!
And I am glad of it with all my heart:
[Aside to a stander by]
Now am I Dromio and his man unbound.
Of rare and proved effects, such as his reading
Or all my fence shall fail.
A herald, ho, a herald!
Hanged! by'r lady, then I have brought up a neck to
No, I warrant you; I will not adventure
That wrought upon thee so preposterously
Fly o'er thy royal head, and shade thy person
not mad indeed? or do you but counterfeit?
That Cleon's wife, with envy rare,
That I think honourable: therefore mark my counsel,
ACT III
Exeunt
Let it be granted you have seen all this--and praise
The uncleanly savours of a slaughter-house;
One grave shall be for both: upon them shall
Committing me unto my brother's love;
Trumpets sound. Enter ALCIBIADES with his powers
As doth a ruler with unlawful oaths;
I fly not death, to fly his deadly doom:
Make us partakers of a little gain,
Monster, your fairy, which you say is
To fetch her fan, her gloves, her mask, nor nothing?
Enter Nurse and PETER
And that hereafter ages may behold
If thou be'st slain and with no stroke of mine,
Exit DIOMEDES; ULYSSES and TROILUS following
You say true:
Exit
Nay, hear them, Antony:
Knight, you have beaten my men, killed my deer, and
When men are unprepared and look not for it.
Dost thou hear?
I would you knew:
He opens the silver casket
Or if it be, 'tis with false sorrow's eye,
Gloucestershire.
Longer or shorter, he may be so fitted
Ay, and in a brooch of lead.
two!
Something not worth in me such rich beholding
vulgar,--O base and obscure vulgar!--videlicet, He
Aside
Needs must you lay your heart at his dispose,
Madam, I wish it may.
Well guess'd, believe me; for that was my meaning.
No more of drowning, do you hear?
Till it o'er-run the stew; laws for all faults,
My will enkindled by mine eyes and ears,
Your niece regards me with an eye of favour.
SCENE III. A room in the Garter Inn.
For one that scorn'd at me, now scorn'd of me;
Ay, he was porn at Monmouth, Captain Gower. What
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
Will you follow, gentlemen? I beseech you, follow;
The woman falls; sure, he hath kill'd his wife.
How long hast thou to serve, Francis?
Though to have her and death were both one thing.
Here, youth, there is my purse; I give thee this
That plats the manes of horses in the night,
Could we but learn from whence his sorrows grow.
Re-enter Porter with keys
Be not amazed; right noble is his blood.
O Cressida, how often have I wished me thus!
Mercy to thee would prove itself a bawd:
To make you answer truly to your name.
To reave the orphan of his patrimony,
O, make a league with me, till I have pleased
Exeunt
He said he had wounds, which he could show
down the door? How now! what's the matter?
A sable silver'd.
Thou call'dst me king.
O, the father, how he holds his countenance!
What would you more? Pompey, good night. Good brother,
How say you now? Is it not past two o'clock? and
By this, I hope, she hath a son for me.
No more shall cut his master. Therefore, friends,
More than the nature of a brother's love!
The poorest service is repaid with thanks;
Do like the mutines of Jerusalem,
Do not say so, my lord.
crow-keeper: draw me a clothier's yard. Look,
To wear a kerchief! Would you were not sick!
Good signior, take the stranger to my house
Now, God incense him,
To do him all the grace and good I could.
Who half an hour since came from the Dauphin,
by Sir Toby.
Why, now, blow wind, swell billow and swim bark!
little yellow beard, a Cain-coloured beard.
Sir, I have seen you in the court of France.
I do estate unto Demetrius.
How and which way I may bestow myself
Your knees to them, not arms, must help. Alack,
Beseech you, sir, be merry; you have cause,
These griefs and losses have so bated me,
Some love of yours hath writ to you in rhyme.
You may go to the devil's dam: your gifts are so
What heart, head, sword, force, means, but is
attending.
I care not whither, for I beg no favour,
As to set dogs on sheep--will be his fire
Nothing but odds with England: to that end,
But bring they what they will and what they can,
Do more than this in sport. Father, father!
But blessedly holp hither.
The gum down-roping from their pale-dead eyes
That very envy and the tongue of loss
That this my death may never be forgot!
not be allowed in Vienna.
overlooking. I have those hopes of her good that
Away with me, all you whose souls abhor
How long hath she been thus?
A plague o' both your houses! I am sped.
Sir Robert never holp to make this leg.
thou to curse thus?
Silence! one word more
Go, go into old Titus' sorrowful house,
I trembling waked, and for a season after
Follow your envious courses, men of malice;
A proper jest, and never heard before,
To signify their coming.
I'll prove it on his body, if he dare,
These hairs, which thou dost ravish from my chin,
And she lies buried with her ancestors;
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
And, with a palsy-fumbling on his gorget,
At thy good heart's oppression.
Shall be the surety for their traitor father.
I hate thee worse.
There, my lord.
For our advantage on the bitter cross.
I have, sir, as I was commanded from you,
As fat as butter.
Now, sir, is your name Menenius?
Let death and honesty
About a hoop of gold, a paltry ring
thorn-bush, my thorn-bush; and this dog, my dog.
Blows dust in other's eyes, to spread itself;
She is not well; but yet she has her health: she's
Exit
use fifty talents, hath sent to your lordship to
Under his own vine, what he plants; and sing
We have record that very well it can,
Are pluck'd up root and all by Bolingbroke,
dealing. When I desire their leave that I might
O, good sir, softly, good sir! I fear, sir, my
bid him bring his pen and inkhorn to the gaol: we
back again with advantage. Be with me betimes in
Irreparable is the loss, and patience
You shall not need to fear me.
That you are welcome?
But be of comfort.
Doth very foolishly, although he smart,
Wear both of them, for both of them are thine.
not alone the imperfections of long-engraffed
I ha' told them over and over; they lack no
I must advance the colours of my love
That mounts no higher than a bird can soar.
The smallest worm will turn being trodden on,
Thersites! what's the matter, man?
The king's grown bankrupt, like a broken man.
deceive it,
Who's that?
These things indeed you have articulate,
gentleman of excellent breeding, admirable
than as a very pretence and purpose of unkindness:
Son to the queen, after his own report;
What will I do, thinkest thou?
With more than foreign heart. We every day
Exeunt
And urged it twice together, did he not?
Bid her come hither: go.
Of the king's grace and pardon. The grieved commons
At Coventry, upon Saint Lambert's day:
If you went in pain, master, this 'knave' would go sore.
Why will you suffer her to flout me thus?
Madam,
the prince your brother, I owe you all duty.
silence in it; and the place answer to convenience.
on my back forty eight.
You have a son, Aumerle, my noble cousin;
Enter COMINIUS
And pray'd me oft forbearance; did it with
To one or two of these!
And what's he then that says I play the villain?
great reckoning in a little room. Truly, I would
Bid the players make haste.
I'll love no friend, sith love breeds such offence.
Our parson misdoubts it; 'twas treason, he said.
he loveth. Assist me, some extemporal god of rhyme,
Exit with the body
This is the feast that I have bid her to,
And for his own advantage.
She came adorned hither like sweet May,
The courage of a woman; less noble mind
too, and ambiguities.
For them all together; which maintained so politic
Leaving no tract behind.
It is my office; and, madam, pardon me.
Corporal Nym, an thou wilt be friends, be friends:
son the whole name of the war: he hath in this
I to buy for our sheep-shearing feast? Three pound
And struck him on his knee: in that day's feats,
So show her merit, that did miss her love?
Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd,
Ay, I praise God; and I have merited some love at
That like a lion foster'd up at hand,
and one, even at the turning o' the tide: for after
These bloody accidents must excuse my manners,
O, stop there a little!
To NORTHUMBERLAND
To hear her prayers for them, as now for us
For so he said he would: I hear him near.
Save these men's looks; who do, methinks, find out
Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
And she will sing the song that pleaseth you
fable: some certain special honours it pleaseth his
I am too sure of it: and it is for getting Madam
Not my deserts, but what I will deserve:
But those that sought it I could wish more Christians:
That cannot be; the noise of thy cross-bow
And sheathe for lack of sport: let us but blow on them,
The dinner is on the table; my father desires your
And all the devils are here.'
Strikes his breast hard, and anon he casts
As high as word, my deed shall match thy meed.
than the master: if any where I have them, 'tis by
Exeunt BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and army
Such bold hostility, teaching his duteous land
To this submission. Yet I well remember
have no more gentlemen driven away. Come your ways, I say.
By one that I'll procure to come to thee,
Doing himself offence; whilst we, lying still,
Nor what ensues, but have a fog in them,
That's a day longer than a wonder lasts.
horse a drench,' says he; and answers 'Some
host, thine Ephesian, calls.
If you be maid or no?
fought a long hour by Shrewsbury clock. If I may be
makes these hard hearts?
A woman clad in armour chaseth them.
'Fair' I give you back again; and 'welcome' I have
Which he, young wanton and effeminate boy,
Flourish of trumpets: then hautboys. Enter KING  HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, SALISBURY, WARWICK, and  CARDINAL, on the one side; QUEEN MARGARET, SUFFOLK, YORK, SOMERSET, and BUCKINGHAM, on the other
appelez-vous le pied et la robe?
Faintly besiege us one hour in a month.
with a whoo-bub against his daughter and the king's
Exeunt
So thrive it in your game! and so, farewell.
Nine, sir; Overdone by the last.
You do their work, and they shall have good luck:
She strokes his cheek!
thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam. Fare thee well.
Prithee, see there! behold! look! lo!
SCENE I. Before LEONATO'S house.
At the discovery of most dangerous treason
That brought her for this high good turn so far?
They say, one Taurus.
To youth and liberty.
In filial obligation for some term
I'll go out then.
What stuff 'tis made of, whereof it is born,
It ill beseems this presence to cry aim
And as a stranger to my heart and me
An if he may, then am I lawful king;
And either not attempt to choose at all
For thy complexion shifts to strange effects,
Here shall I die ashore--
Do as the carrion does, not as the flower,
All hail, Macbeth! hail to thee, thane of Glamis!
Exit
Till she herself confess it.
Which smoked with bloody execution,
But O,--but O,--
Could not prevail with all their oratory,
Who 'scapes the lurking serpent's mortal sting?
Is this most constant wife; who, even now,
Why, Marcus, so she is.
Windsor stag; and the fattest, I think, i' the
And when this arm of mine hath chastised
'If this fall into thy hand, revolve. In my stars I
wailing, my sister crying, our maid howling, our cat
Thy spacious and dilated parts: here's Nestor;
But that your daughter, ere she seems as won,
Anthony Woodville, her brother there,
And let Bianca take her sister's room.
Give me advantage of some brief discourse
You mean, to bear me, not to bear with me:
To give thee all, and in his waning age
How now! what hath befall'n?
The matter, I hope, is not great, sir, begging but
What store her heart is made on. Stop her there!
Say, 'pardon' first, and afterwards 'stand up.'
I do, my lord.
Lord Talbot of Goodrig and Urchinfield,
Which I have sworn to weed and pluck away.
Angelo hath seen them both, and will discover the favour.
Half all Cominius' honours are to Marcius.
More suits you to conceive than I to speak of.
Who can arraign me for't.
If I now had him brought into my power.
O foul revolt of French inconstancy!
Myself or Menelaus?
Ay me, I see the downfall of our house!
And added years to his short banishment,
He is not doubted. A word, Lucilius;
To kiss and talk to. I'll have the work ta'en out,
And startled, when he look'd upon the Tower,
By God's fair ordinance conjoin together!
I have loved thee,--
Then is he more beholding to you than I.
With that which melteth fools; I mean, sweet words,
Revel and feast it at my house to-day,
Commend these waters to those baby eyes
I myself fight not once in forty year.
Know, thou sad man, I am not Tamora;
him here? Did he ask for me? Where remains he?
There is further compliment of leavetaking
My army but a weak and sickly guard;
Of healths five-fathom deep; and then anon
purpose, courage and valour, this night show it: if
discourse peremptory, his tongue filed, his eye
this dream: it shall be called Bottom's Dream,
My worth unknown, no loss is known in me.
Is a reserved honesty, and that
this quarrel.
With the green sickness.
But when he meant to quail and shake the orb,
'Tis pride that pulls the country down;
And grow big-bellied with the wanton wind;
Exit
Let him fly far:
That we have stol'n what we do fear to keep!
And pleasure drown the brim.
Thou didst well; for wisdom cries out in the
By heaven, I think my sword's as sharp as yours:
Fair one, all goodness that consists in bounty
Crush him together rather than unfold
What! sigh for the toothache?
Such terrible impression made the dream.
The passion of loud laughter never shed.
the ear of the court, how I have been transformed
Alarbus goes to rest; and we survive
The chain were longer and the letter short?
I'll make a corse of him that disobeys.
ANTIPHOLUS
But only, with your patience, that we may
Upon my head they placed a fruitless crown,
Well, so it stands; and thus, I fear, at last
She sat like patience on a monument,
I will hear you, Master Fenton; and I will at the
Exeunt
Look to't, I charge you: come your ways.
A beggarly account of empty boxes,
Than doth your brother that hath banish'd you.
And a thousand fragrant posies.
Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
so God keep your worship!
Resolve you.
hath the finest mad devil of jealousy in him,
Now, by the sky that hangs above our heads,
No, in good earnest.
That is not the duke's letter, sir; that is an
So should we you, if you should be our king.
Take thy correction mildly, kiss the rod,
Some there be that shadows kiss;
Even like thy chastity. O cursed slave!
And here he comes.
Or wallow naked in December snow
At your pleasure, my good lord. Who's within
Strange times, that weep with laughing, not with weeping!
Which, but their children's end, nought could remove,
Outlive thy glory, like my wretched self!
Beside, what infamy will there arise,
Leap to these arms, untalk'd of and unseen.
I with great truth catch mere simplicity;
You gave me none: you wrong me much to say so.
That carry but half sense: her speech is nothing,
Induced by potent circumstances, that
And let the stinking elder, grief, untwine
Rather than die at once!--taught me to shift
To the Propontic and the Hellespont,
He would not then have touch'd them for his life!
Peace; no more. Adieu.
Tut, never fear me: I am as vigilant as a cat to
Devised impeachments to imprison him :
I'faith, i'faith; and both in a tune, like two
Nay, then, God be wi' you, an you talk in blank verse.
Afflict me with thy mocks, pity me not;
On those that are, revenges: crimes, like lands,
Aged sir, hands off.
these two moles, these blind ones, aboard him: if he
SCENE III. The same. ANTONIO's house.
The gates of Rome. Our spoils we have brought home
Till we have done at sea. Do not exceed
And virtue stoops and trembles at her frown.
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire:
To be a speaker free; when I am hence
That thus I have resign'd my charge to you.
Why, that will I.
'Tis well: I'll have thee speak out the rest soon.
Whether for east or west: the dearth is great;
least keep your counsel.
Thou dost conspire against thy friend, Iago,
Papers of state he sent me to peruse,
I have not been desirous of their wealth,
By a letter, I should say.
Exeunt CHATILLON and PEMBROKE
What say'st thou, Kate? what would'st thou
I have for the most part been aired abroad, I
One sin, I know, another doth provoke;
are damned. There is but one hope in it that can do
How now, how now, chop-logic! What is this?
Here did she fall a tear; here in this place
If any come, Hector shall honour him;
Abate thy hour! Shine comforts from the east,
much further;
She would never tell
If Hermia meant to say Lysander lied.
They choose Ladies for the dance. KING HENRY VIII chooses ANNE
She was, good Curtis, before this frost: but, thou
Help not all, yet do they ease the heart.
The sun was not so true unto the day
No? why, 'tis a plain case: he that went, like a
And like a bated and retired flood,
thought my spleen; the heaving of my lungs provokes
Speak freely of our acts, or else our grave,
In Helicanus may you well descry
Away even now, or I will drag thee hence:
Your crown content and you must be contented
Ay, Timon, and have cause.
An if they live, I hope I need not fear.
Sir Proteus, gentle lady, and your servant.
SCENE II. The palace.
From the fix'd place; drew from heart all love,
How that ambitious Constance would not cease
If you forsake the offer of their love.
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
I was my chamber's prisoner.
All other doubts, by time let them be clear'd:
Will she away to-night?
In our first way.
Why, yet there want not many that do fear
ANTIPHOLUS
that cons state without book and utters it by great
sings 'em over as they were gods or goddesses; you
So like a waking. To me comes a creature,
her to her heart that she might no more be in danger
Ay, good my lord. Why should you say Cressida? no,
Ah, tutor, look where bloody Clifford comes!
So much by weight hate I her Diomed:
And all cry, Hector! Hector's dead! O Hector!
God's body! the turkeys in my pannier are quite
Marry, for that she's in a wrong belief,
You are a fair viol, and your sense the strings;
I will have none so near else. Learn this, brother,
And these assume but valour's excrement
Mistress, upon my life, I tell you true;
Let me pour in some sack to the Thames water; for my
Exit
Not yet, I thee beseech:
For 'tis the mind that makes the body rich;
me in heaven, because I am a Jew's daughter: and he
Exit
need no more weight than mine own bowels. I have
I cannot blame them all: what is't to them?
The bearer knows not, but commends itself
Four days will quickly steep themselves in night;
No, not so much perdition as an hair
Who knows not where a wasp does
If Timon stay at home. You three serve three usurers?
I speak no more than every one doth know.
Quick proceeders, marry! Now, tell me, I pray,
Thus did he strangle serpents in his manus.
Thy threats have no more strength than her weak prayers.
Large gifts have I bestow'd on learned clerks,
The passages made toward it: on my honour,
And this the regal seat: possess it, York;
Mad as the sea and wind, when both contend
opportunity.
That man i' the world who shall report he has
word for two pence that you are no fool.
Is Lewis so brave? belike he thinks me Henry.
I knew 'twould be a bald conclusion:
sir, is a good tripping measure; or the bells of
All mortal consequences have pronounced me thus:
So great a day as this is cheaply bought.
Here comes my daughter, she can witness it.
What know I how the world may deem of me?
My lords, with all the humbleness I may,
What means this, my lord?
This is above all strangeness.
More goddess-like than wife-like, such assaults
I fear, I fear 'twill prove a troublous world.
No interim, not a minute's vacancy,
Now, brother Richard, Lord Hastings, and the rest,
So true men yield, with robbers so o'ermatch'd.
They were traitors: honourable men!
As plays the sun upon the glassy streams,
No man but prophesied revenge for it.
Marry, sir, we say we are none.
In nature is a tyranny; it hath been
world shall know it: though you have put me into
would it were otherwise; that I could beat him,
O me! this sight of death is as a bell,
That some night-tripping fairy had exchanged
Enter ROSALIND
shall be humble. Few words to fair faith: Troilus
Make not too rash a trial of him, for
A thousand thanks, Signior Gremio.
Falstaff, and laugh at Page. I will about it;
Than Cleopatra; nor the queen of Ptolemy
Captain, I thee beseech to do me favours:
Hiding his bitter jests in blunt behavior:
Will you think so?
Which ne'er I did remember: to my knowledge,
I would she did as you say.
Despise me, if I do not. Three great ones of the city,
Of much less value is my company
With all their powerful friends, are fled to him.
Caesar, my lord?
Black and portentous must this humour prove,
The common praise it bears.
Since you to non-regardance cast my faith,
Yet such extenuation let me beg,
A troop of horse with felt: I'll put 't in proof;
[Aside]  O excellent motion! O exceeding puppet!
But faithfulness and courage.
My lords, I care not, so much I am happy
should sing.
Good Master Vernon, it is well objected:
Conceit, more rich in matter than in words,
Wherefore is this?
More tight at this than thou: dispatch. O love,
[To POLONIUS]  God save you, sir!
have her or no.
Bring in our daughter, clothed like a bride,
It is no matter-a ver dat: do not you tell-a me
And bid the snail-paced Ajax arm for shame.
Our neighbour shepherd's son!
If I speak like a captain.
Of old Sir Rowland! why, what make you here?
But to defend his person from night-foes?
Are now to have no successive degrees,
Paysans, pauvres gens de France;
How far I am from the desire thereof.
That should deracinate such savagery;
The flat transgression of a schoolboy, who, being
True as you said, Timon is shrunk indeed;
I pray you, air, as you sit at dinner:
Could man so blench?
Any thing like?
And out of her own goodness make the net
Was I for this nigh wreck'd upon the sea
enough to make such knaveries yours.
Joshua, yourself; myself and this gallant gentleman,
out says thou art a fair corse, I'll be sworn and
Saw sighs reek from you, noted well your passion:
Where is she?
Have I in conquest stretch'd mine arm so far,
With observation, the which he vents
Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE, guarded, and a Shepherd
On his shoulder, and his; her face o' fire
Ill, when you talk of war.
It is not so; thou hast misspoke, misheard:
How now, Grumio!
To the dead bodies of my queen and son:
As jewels in crystal for some prince to buy;
And now to London all the crew are gone,
He's married, madam.
Consisteth of all nations. Therefore, go:
And shrieks like mandrakes' torn out of the earth,
What said Popilius Lena?
Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull
It must be thought on. If it pass against us,
What was he that you followed with your sword? What
Lead me, my lord? I do not need your help:
His Philomel must lose her tongue to-day,
whom came he? to the beggar: what saw he? the
I would he had.
Here is my hand; the premises observed,
cudgelled; and I think the issue will be, I shall
ACT III
By friendship nor by speaking.'
That is thy charge: then to the elements
Himself would lodge where senseless they are lying!
Have utter'd truth: which if you seek to prove,
To Henry Bolingbroke.
No, nor never shall do in such a place as this, she
Me tank you for dat.
We must do something, and i' the heat.
Into the good thoughts of the world again,
whom you should have been a pander: over and above
I had a father, Mistress Anne; my uncle can tell you
And quicken his embraced heaviness
No more than a fish loves water. Is not this a
Enter JOHN OF GAUNT sick, with the DUKE OF YORK, and c
The king is kind; and well we know the king
We did, my lord, weeping and commenting
And then deny her aiding hand therein,
So Fulvia told me.
Be assured you may.
O, God save ye!
that Worthy's thumb: he is not so big as the end of his club.
Will nothing turn your unrelenting hearts?
We will go walk a little in the orchard,
Reads
By Jeshu, I am your majesty's countryman, I care not
What please yourself, sir: I have made it for you.
Exeunt NORTHUMBERLAND and others, with the prisoners
Empress I am, but yonder sits the emperor.
And, when we are put off, fall to their throats:
Come Caesar to the Capitol to-morrow?
Of more strong link asunder than can ever
The most replenish'd villain in the world,
And know not now what name to call myself!
left arm, that I amazed ran from her as a witch:
arraigned of high treason, in committing adultery
Where you may abide till your date expire.
Well said.
grieve thee,
Upon the giddy footing of the hatches,
It is applied to a deathful wound.
Which I have wonder'd at. In hope it shall not,
What figure?
No, madam, these are no venereal signs:
To make us strangers to his looks of love.
I'll lend it thee, my dear; but have no power
For they breathe truth that breathe their words in pain.
'Tis said he holds you well, and will be led
It will the woefullest division prove
ill-rooted already: the least wind i' the world
The terms of our estate may not endure
And fearless minds climb soonest unto crowns.
Art thou his friend?
Whose reverence even the head-lugg'd bear would lick,
So justly to your grave ears I'll present
May be, nor can I think the contrary,
Take my deserts to his, and join 'em both:
And you must put me in your heart for friend,
Nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon.
Hero itself can blot out Hero's virtue.
Nor grieve that Rouen is so recovered:
and the boy:--
Of thy misprision must perforce ensue
And, might we lay the old proverb to your charge,
The one his purple blood right well resembles;
Now piercing to my soul. O, thus she stood,
Then here I take my leave of thee, fair son,
Who wouldst thou strike?
He did command me to call timely on him:
And this thy son's blood cleaving to my blade
You are transported by calamity
The greatest monarch now alive may glory
Alack the day! he's gone, he's kill'd, he's dead!
I promised your grace a hunter's peal.
I do relent: what would thou more of man?
'Here follow her vices.'
What a full fortune does the thicklips owe
raves in saying nothing.
Or I am mad, or else this is a dream:
Which like a mighty whiffler 'fore the king
set on thy horns. O powerful love! that, in some
For grief is proud and makes his owner stoop.
is not vain-glory for a man and his glass to confer
It would be spoke to.
When man was wish'd to love his enemies!
I warrant it is to knight you, captain.
Do as I bid you. Where's this cup I call'd for?
And there is my Lord of Worcester and a head
Your accent is something finer than you could
Exeunt
Exit boy
I pray thee, peace. I will be flesh and blood;
face be better than any man's, yet his leg excels
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
Come, you are a tedious fool: to the purpose. What
You sunburnt sicklemen, of August weary,
Therefore this article is made in vain,
Little.
Fair Lord AEneas, let me touch your hand;
And waste the time, which looks for other revels.
commander;
Heir to the crown?
Yes, if you love me, sir.
Come good fellow, put mine iron on:
Enter a Messenger, with two heads and a hand
Some better than his value, on the moment
And must I go to him?
How if I answer 'no'?
See here these movers that do prize their hours
When his love he doth espy,
Mistake not, uncle, further than you should.
SCENE VI. Street near the city gate.
Pardon this fault, and by my soul I swear
Salute thee for her king: till then, fair boy,
Shout within. 'A Lancaster! A Lancaster!'
But is four Volsces? none of you but is
His love and wisdom,
What I have spoke, or thou canst worse devise.
He's fallen in love with your foulness and she'll
I'll make a shaft or a bolt on't: 'slid, 'tis but
I'll frown and be perverse an say thee nay,
Well, well, 'tis done, 'tis past: and yet it is not;
But who comes in such haste in riding-robes?
cast accompt.
ACT V
But then renew I could not, like the moon;
Heaven hath through me restored the king to health.
Enter HERMIA and DEMETRIUS
I'll leave my son my virtuous deeds behind;
Out of the mind.
He is, my lord, an hour ago.
Enter MACDUFF and LENNOX
Remains the censure of this hellish villain;
That were the authors.
On fair ground
Know thus far forth.
Exeunt
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight,
Whose bright out-shining beams thy cloudy wrath
Re-enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO
your present to one Master Bassanio, who, indeed,
Some loving friends convey the emperor hence,
I do not bid thee beg my life, good lad;
Why, they will allow us ne'er a jordan, and then we
No, no, it cannot be; and yet my heart
A heavy summons lies like lead upon me,
O, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
Not decked with diamonds and Indian stones,
A solemn combination shall be made
Mark his condition and the event; then tell me
Enter LODOVICO and GRATIANO
To seek their fortunes farther than at home
In the same fashion as you gave in charge,
Nor feels not what he owes, but by reflection;
In answer of which claim, the prince our master
[Aside]  Were I from Dunsinane away and clear,
fashion, i' faith. I saw the Duchess of Milan's
Go, hang thyself in thine own heir-apparent
score. He pieces out his wife's inclination; he
must needs confess,--
Your love says, like an honest gentleman, and a
And do a wilful stillness entertain,
Lightens my humour with his merry jests.
To hale thy vengeful waggon swift away,
My friend Polixenes: which had been done,
This jarring discord of nobility,
Those that have known the earth so full of faults.
But is it true? or else is it your pleasure,
these gifts a curtain before 'em? are they like to
hope of life in him: so he served the second, and
Enter EDMUND, with his rapier drawn, CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants
Stay not, be gone; live, and hereafter say,
O my accursed womb, the bed of death!
Look you, she loved her kinsman Tybalt dearly,
Had you not been their father, these white flakes
O that I were a god, to shoot forth thunder
Untied I still my virgin knot will keep.
Tell thee, with speechless tongues and semblance pale,
SCENE VII. The French camp, near Agincourt:
this advise you, follow. So he wishes you all
Bishop of Winchester. But know, I come not
Which she must dote on in extremity.
Why, as black as ink.
joint-ring, nor for measures of lawn, nor for
Come, sir; come, sir; come, sir; foh, sir! Why, you
But there is no such man: for, brother, men
paper, although the sheet were big enough for the
Upon the next live creature that it sees.
The news is true, my lord; he is descried;
pate of father Time himself.
If you had pleased to have defended it
Though I perchance am vicious in my guess,
Should lift their bosoms higher than the shores
'Zounds, will they not rob us?
Ungarter'd, and down-gyved to his ancle;
For these domestic and particular broils
When we do quicken. Desdemona comes:
Not sure, though hoping, of this good success,
Enter PANDARUS
That drug-damn'd Italy hath out-craftied him,
I tell you true: best you safed the bringer
Enter a Servant
So service shall with steeled sinews toil,
Upon their pillows:
And mine, my lord.
Exeunt Fairies. TITANIA sleeps
Good madam, hear me.
Uncase thee; take my colour'd hat and cloak:
cannot tell.
Exit Luciana
Exit
She can milk;' look you, a sweet virtue in a maid
You're servant to the Count Orsino, youth.
The augurer tells me we shall have news to-night.
Lies richer in your thoughts than on his tomb;
Thou for whom Jove would swear
Ay, some mad message from his mad grandfather.
'Bove the contentious waves he kept, and oar'd
My wife comes foremost; then the honour'd mould
Save, from my glass, mine own; nor have I seen
I humbly thank you.
ANTIPHOLUS
That were enwombed mine: 'tis often seen
How? of adultery? Wherefore write you not
I, his despiteful Juno, sent him forth
Whose name was once our terror, now our comfort;
Faith, as cold as can be.
Jesu, what haste? can you not stay awhile?
He hangs the lip at something: you know all, Lord Pandarus.
I'll lay my head to any good man's hat,
And yet I know thou wilt.
How many goodly creatures are there here!
More worthier than their voices. They know the corn
And he, that suffer's. O, it is excellent
Out on thee, villain! wherefore dost thou mad me?
Exit
o' the air.
O, heaven forgive us!
Where you shall host: of enjoin'd penitents
As easy mayst thou the intrenchant air
You may discern the place.
Or here, or at the Capitol.
To warn false traitors from the like attempts.
Hadst thou but shook thy head or made a pause
To dispossess that child which is not his?
To spend the time to end it.
Exeunt some with KING HENRY VI
Not this, but troubles of the marriage-bed.
To look into this business thoroughly
Which you have not redeem'd; indeed, paid down
What, are there masques? Hear you me, Jessica:
And lawfully by this the Jew may claim
Send quickly to Sir John, to know his mind.
wrath, and turn the dregs of it upon this varlet
The senator shall bear contempt hereditary,
nor no penance; but a' must fast three days a week.
Upon the valleys, whose low vassal seat
Ay, sir, that soaks up the king's countenance, his
Be intelligent to me: 'tis thereabouts;
Shouting, and throwing up their caps
you have courage to maintain it: I am bound to call
If she come in, she'll sure speak to my wife:
yet a coward is worse than a cup of sack with lime
Why hath it given me earnest of success,
If I did stay to look on his intents.
Put finger in the eye, an she knew why.
bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used; for
Go give your master this: tell him from me,
If I had a mind to be honest, I see Fortune would
Farewell: our countrymen are gone and fled,
It will be for his gentle daughter's sake:
They have the plague, and caught it of your eyes;
A most delicious banquet by his bed,
why, it must be requited. I hear how I am censured:
And 'tis my hope to end successfully.
Nature's own shape, of bud, bird, branch, or berry,
I shall stay here the forehorse to a smock,
open't. What's within, boy?
Let silence be commanded.
In Saturninus' health, whom, if she sleep,
I pray you, stay not, but in haste to horse.
O woe! thy canopy is dust and stones;--
Have placed me in this sty, where, since I came,
What, dost thou weep? Come nearer. Then I
Know, worthy Pompey,
When she does praise me grieves me. I have done
Where I intend holy confession.
Sweet prince, the untainted virtue of your years
No more, but that you read
How now! what's the matter?
Plaster you o'er, that you may be abhorr'd
God save you, noble captain.
Give me your hands all over, one by one.
Why at our justice seem'st thou then to lour?
Though you are old enough to be my heir.
Why, how now, my bawcock! how dost thou, chuck?
powers of the kingdom approach apace.
Myself am struck in years, I must confess;
As he shall like, to quit me: urge it thou:
possible, on such a sudden, you should fall into so
It pays the hearing double recompense.
The blood, and dearest-valued blood, of France.
man knows where to have me, thou knave, thou!
Or be not, I'll not swear.
Exeunt, fighting
Come on, sirrah; hold up your head; answer your
You draw me, you hard-hearted adamant;
A happy and a joyful time of day!
'O, farewell, Warwick!'
Marry, sir, you must send the ass upon the horse,
Beloved of me; and that my deeds shall prove.
The cuckold and the cuckold-maker are at it. Now,
Exit
For we are peremptory to dispatch
No, Messala.
From sun to sun: there is my honour's pawn;
What conjuration and what mighty magic,
Must needs give sentence 'gainst the merchant there.
I tell you, friends, most charitable care
Exeunt LANCASTER and WESTMORELAND
For parting us,--O, is it all forgot?
Let me hear you speak farther. I have spirit to do
I'll manacle thy neck and feet together:
Pardon is still the nurse of second woe:
Flourish of cornets. Exeunt all but SICINIUS and BRUTUS
You that will be less fearful than discreet,
It lies to cure me: and the cure is, to
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, LAERTES, Lords, OSRIC, and Attendants with foils,  and c
And then we shall repent each drop of blood
What hast thou found?
Enter OTHELLO
That hath contrived this woful tragedy!
This seen, Orlando did approach the man
Enter LADY MACDUFF, her Son, and ROSS
Some monstrous malefactor. Prithee, friend,
Such love must needs be treason in my breast:
So much my conscience whispers in your ear,
SCENE IV. Before the walls of Athens.
against me; he stands there, like a mortar-piece, to
Which we will second. When he lies along,
what is't?
Unless for that he comes to be your liege,
Art thou not, fatal vision, sensible
Exeunt
That's not amiss;
pains to thank me: if it had been painful, I would
No, let them satisfy their lust on thee.
Report be an honest woman of her word.
Sleeping or waking must I still prevail,
Be moderate, be moderate.
To do you rest, a thousand deaths would die.
But, look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
Ghost
Ay, if yourself's remembrance wrong yourself.
When Signior Sooth here does proclaim a peace,
Good madam, hear me speak,
A natural perspective, that is and is not!
laugh at my wife, that now laughs at thee: tell her
voice on you: you must therefore be content to
Your gentle hands lend us, and take our hearts.
But by ten words, my lord, it is too long,
What, shall we toward the Tower? the day is spent.
will beat into clamorous whining, if thou deniest
clay-brained guts, thou knotty-pated fool, thou
strangeness and tell me what I shall vent to my
Enter CRANMER
And forced to live in Scotland a forlorn;
The Lord's anointed temple, and stole thence
With my confineless harms.
Coming from us.
Enfranchisement immediate on his kn ees:
I know you could not lack, I am certain on't,
May see the sea hath cast upon your coast.
SCENE II. The sea-coast.
Traduced by ignorant tongues, which neither know
whips the dogs: 'Friend,' quoth I, 'you mean to whip
all my trumpery; not a counterfeit stone, not a
Wallets of flesh? or that there were such men
Such a nut is Rosalind.
Hath not thy rose a canker, Somerset?
Prunes the immortal wing and cloys his beak,
How it goes here. It fits us therefore ripely
Strikes him
The self-same gods that arm'd the Queen of Troy
May a man do it?
And leave itself unfurnish'd. Yet look, how far
So grace and mercy at your most need help you, Swear.
Did scowl on gentle Richard; no man cried 'God save him!'
This is a slave, whose easy-borrow'd pride
Behold how like a maid she blushes here!
Brutus is wise, and, were he not in health,
my simple true judgment; or would you have me speak
I do not seek to quench your love's hot fire,
Thou shalt be punish'd for thus frighting me,
I saw our party to their trenches driven,
Valiantly vanquish'd. Now my spirit is going;
Exeunt
They shall have none, I swear, but these my joints;
One must prove greatest: while they weigh so even,
My answer back. Brutus hath rived my heart:
Are they not lamely writ?
land now as cheap as stinking mackerel.
And why should we proclaim it in an hour before his
Herald, conduct me to the Dauphin's tent,
foot, look you, is fixed upon a spherical stone,
And after-dinner's breath.
given, she's very well and wants nothing i', the
With many holiday and lady terms
Made all of false-faced soothing!
you'll bear me a bang for that, I fear. Proceed; directly.
'tis not a maid, for she hath had gossips; yet 'tis
The senate hath sent about three several guests
And I, I hope, shall reconcile them all.
And often, to our comfort, shall we find
I find my zenith doth depend upon
Most bounteous sir,
know'st this,
Thou lay'st in every gash that love hath given me
For I must hence; and farewell to you all.
Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf;
Halts not particularly, but moves itself
My present vengeance taken: 'shrew my heart,
that she sends you to prison hither?
The blackest news that ever thou heardest.
The cheapest of us is ten groats too dear.
His blows are well disposed: there, Ajax!
It is required
Had never like executor. I forget:
Which I am proud to bear.
fear she'll prove as hard to you in telling your
thrift. Briefly, I do mean to make love to Ford's
Yonder is a most reverend gentleman, who, belike
And why so, my lord?
And wash this filthy witness from your hand.
Such war of white and red within her cheeks!
I thank you, good people: there shall be no money;
For I am stifled with this smell of sin.
That I have  fined these bones of mine for ransom?
Make trivial price of serious things we have,
For honour travels in a strait so narrow,
Let liberty make use of; space enough
Come, come.
word of mouth; set upon Aguecheek a notable report
For such and so they are--these twenty years
O, tell me, did you see Aaron the Moor?
And he from forage will incline to play:
shall come in house withal, and, I warrant you, no
I think it be two o'clock.
Which she, with pretty and with swimming gait
My master knows not but I am gone hence;
But that, forsooth, the bouncing Amazon,
I thank you most for him.
Enter Chamberlain, SANDS, and LOVELL
Forewarn him that he use no scurrilous words in 's tunes.
'Tis thou that rigg'st the bark and plough'st the foam,
How, Camillo,
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, and his Army
'Tis better that the enemy seek us:
Nay, 'tis strange, 'tis very strange, that is the
Thou and these woes were all for Rosaline:
I pray, sir, tell me, is it possible
Which did incorporate and make us one,
That eyes, that are the frail'st and softest things,
He kills another. Then Exton strikes him down
Seducing so my friends; and, to this end,
But let the famish'd flesh slide from the bone,
Art thou a messenger, or come of pleasure?
The air is delicate.
He'ld fetch us in; yet is't not probable
You heedless joltheads and unmanner'd slaves!
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
Of a snail?
Turn'd her obedience, which is due to me,
The king my father!
Can we set eye on; but in all safe reason
Exeunt all except SHALLOW, SLENDER, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Then leave me not, my lords; be resolute;
By this discovery lost. Be not uncertain;
I do beseech you, take it not amiss;
I seal upon the lips of this sweet babe.
Avaunt, thou hateful villain, get thee gone!
This is the man.
To your worship's house, sir?
example, that so terrible shows in the wreck of
Men so disorder'd, so debosh'd and bold,
For fury not to be resisted. Thus defied,
And what thou hast, forget'st. Thou art not certain;
but to counterfeit dying, when a man thereby
Re-enter GREMIO
That proof is call'd impossibility.
He's a sworn rioter: he has a sin that often
knock and call; hell speak like an Anthropophaginian
And own no other function: each your doing,
O Brakenbury, I have done those things,
To wreak the love I bore my cousin
For I by vow am so embodied yours,
To your direction. Hubert, what news with you?
As here at home, suggests the king our master
is to behold him with flies blown to death. But what
And soothe the devil that I warn thee from?
I would it might prove the end of his losses.
I cannot think you are my son.
Ever true in loving be;
As things but done by chance.
I am a fool
An oath of mickle might; and fury shall abate.
It were fit you knew him; lest, reposing too far in
But honour thee, and will do till I die:
As well at London bridge as at the Tower.
Peer'd forth the golden window of the east,
Collected choicely, from each county some,
Thus, what with the war, what with the sweat, what
You shall have any thing.
Hear you, cousin; a word.
I do not know from what part of the world
on 't, Jove; a foul fault! When gods have hot
but if you say, 'Marry her,' I will marry her; that
Enter BERTRAM, PAROLLES, and the whole army
Rape, call you it, my lord, to seize my own,
Exit TALBOT. Alarum; retreat; flourish
ere morning.
shall be married to-morrow:
That this lives in thy mind? What seest thou else
And do not call them bastards.
He's simple and tells much.
By this hand, I am. Good fool, some ink, paper and
e, b, t, not d, e, t: he clepeth a calf, cauf;
For you have show'd me that which well approves
I humbly thank you for't.
Enter Apothecary
custom of exercises; and indeed it goes so heavily
I dare be bound he's true and shall perform
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
But it proceeds or comes from them to you
Exeunt
Thus part we rich in sorrow, parting poor.
And therein reverenced for their lawful king:
Mocks married men; for thus sings he, 	Cuckoo;
To-morrow shall we visit you again.
Lest, then, the people, and patricians too,
And suits well for a servant with my fortunes:
As one, in suffering all, that suffers nothing,
Pardon me, Proteus: all I can is nothing
So fly I from her that would be my wife.
Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her;
Either from Venice, or some unhatch'd practise
Make thee beg pardon for thy passed speech,
Which have, like unscour'd armour, hung by the wall
little more to say, sir, of his honesty: he has
Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
Like one another's glass to trim them by:
a commonweal that do nothing but use their abuses in
Did lately meet in the intestine shock
Your name, your quality? and why you answer
Break up their drowsy grave and newly move,
Give me thy torch, boy: hence, and stand aloof:
I tell thee, yea.
Hum!
I will employ thee back again; I find thee
SCENE I. Plains near Rome.
hard for him; I have heard him say so himself.
Until I see the ring.
I had rather seal my lips, than, to my peril,
For I have seen our enemies' overthrow.
No, in truth.
and on. By this light, thou shalt be my lieutenant,
Good queen, let us entreat you.
Prepare we for our marriage--on which day,
Come, cords, come, nurse; I'll to my wedding-bed;
Tell us this: have you any thing to take to?
To silence envious tongues. Be just, and fear not:
The night is long that never finds the day.
By a sharp torture.
Exeunt
Be crown'd with plagues that thee alone obey!
I pant for life: some good I mean to do,
Whom he begot with child, let her appear,
But miserable most, to love unloved?
As closely to conceal what we impart:
and then rejourn the controversy of three pence to a
To grapple with the house of Lancaster;
One of them you shall be.
To quit me of them throughly.
And make it halt behind her.
It is not a fashion for the maids in France to kiss
That shake not, though they blow perpetually.
Has the king this?
Being free from vainness and self-glorious pride;
What means your ladyship? do you not like it?
What's the matter? Have we devils here? Do you put
And rush'd into the bowels of the battle.
News, lads! our wars are done.
As words could make up vows: and, my good lord,
Now let thy friendly hand
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
One that old Frederick, your father, loves.
Run, master, run; for God's sake, take a house!
Who needs must know of her departure and
Till now infixed I beheld myself
her and ill-thought on of you; gone between and
Must get a father, call'd 'supposed Vincentio;'
Claudio die to-morrow or no?
De neck, madame.
Then am I king'd again: and by and by
A statelier pyramis to her I'll rear
Here lie I down, and measure out my grave. Farewell,
But who can cease to weep and look on this?
Opens his vasty jaws; and on your head
Enter OPHELIA
You bred him as my playfellow, and he is
false of heart that way; and that he knew, I warrant
And he would love me dearly as his child.
is herself in the tub.
ACT I
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE OF ARRAGON, PORTIA, and their trains
These dead men's tombs.
Hark! they are coming from the field: shall we
What news more?
so inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of
That this shall be, or we will fall for it?
Why do you speak to me? I never hurt you:
deliver you.
Sad true lover never find my grave,
Pardon the frankness of my mirth, if I answer you
Come your ways, sir; come.
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him:
Should outlive Caesar: we shall find of him
Humbly, sir, I thank you.
When this same lusty gentleman was got.
Thanks, sweet Lavinia. Romans, let us go;
But, Valentine being gone, I'll quickly cross
No, sir, you must not kneel.
pleasure to you in being so. You blame Marcius for
now stands, he will avoid your accusation; he made
I did, my lord.
For shallow draught and bulk unprizable;
Music, whilst BASSANIO comments on the caskets to himself
The woods are ruthless, dreadful, deaf, and dull;
'Sweep on, you fat and greasy citizens;
And that you will some good instruction give
Of your dear mother England, blush for shame;
Say 'What is it your honour will command?'
Flourish, and shout within, 'Make way there: Octavius Caesar!'
I would give it every foot to have this face;
Exit
looks, your red-lattice phrases, and your
To measure out my length on this cold bed.
should he learn our language? I will give him some
How does the queen?
And seem a saint, when most I play the devil.
Exit
Away, slight man!
I, with a troop of Florentines, will suddenly
And they that are most galled with my folly,
Stood on the extremest verge of the swift brook,
I know not the contents; but, as I guess
Is he not here?
Can neither call it perfect day nor night.
Nor wittingly have I infringed my vow.
I would remove these tedious stumbling-blocks
By wounding his belief in her renown
To hear of it: they are about the court,
Strike those that make them; and their story is
To whom should I complain? Did I tell this,
repentance and, with his bad legs, falls into the
But one ten thousand of those men in England
As I have read, sir; and the best of them too.
I think the devil will not have me damned, lest the
thing, if men were as they have been. Get this done
The king rises.
I will hear Brutus speak.
For a charm of powerful trouble,
We'll send Mark Antony to the senate-house:
I had good argument for kissing once.
That stabb'd me in the field by Tewksbury;
Thus in plain terms: your father hath consented
Third trumpet
But that thy face is, vizard-like, unchanging,
Of us and those that love you. Best of comfort;
I do refuse you for my judge; and here,
They are but beggars that can count their worth;
Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from
Which thus she hath prevented.
Very ill-favoredly, Master Brook.
That which my father loses; no less than all:
With her companion grief must end her life.
puts transgression to 't.
Marry, at the white hair that Helen spied on Troilus' chin.
Not so hot:
He is slain.
said she, 'a fine little one.' 'No,' said I, 'a
Proportion'd to our cause, must be as great
I have gone all night. 'Faith, I'll lie down and sleep.
I know it well, Lord Warwick; blame me not:
You'll show a little honesty.
Ay, lordly sir; for what are you, I pray,
That I sleeping here was found
Thus, in this strange and sad habiliment,
you, and their daughters profit very greatly under
As full of grief as age; wretched in both!
memory, nourished in the womb of pia mater, and
Keeps Death his court and there the antic sits,
Exeunt FLORIZEL, PERDITA, and CAMILLO
Have you a working pulse? and are no fairy?
Giving no ground unto the house of York,
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay,
Re-enter DOLABELLA
What! is my Lord of Winchester install'd,
in thy scarf and beaten, thou shalt find what it is
Exit
And by his hollow whistling in the leaves
To cut the head off and then hack the limbs,
And bid me say to you by word of mouth--
Than seek a dispensation for his oath,
Draw lots who shall begin.
Of great estate, of fresh and stainless youth;
And did entreat your highness to this course
Slanders, sir: for the satirical rogue says here
What shall you ask of me that I'll deny,
The shepherd's note since we have left our throne
There comes an old man and his three sons,--
If you turn not, you will return the sooner.
thee, in what motion age will give me leave.
My fortunes to your service, which are here
No, I'll not meddle.
to be a friar, from the time of his remembrance to
If the good truth were known.
see thee again.
dog again.
[Within]  Who's within there? ho!
But praying, to enrich his watchful soul:
And wouldst thou have me cast my love on him?
We have made inquiry of you; and we hear
The thankings of a king.
Holds his soul light; he dies upon his motion.
She's the worse for all this.
A bribe to pay my sword: I do refuse it;
Of credit infinite, highly beloved,
But taken and impounded as a stray
I must obey: his art is of such power,
I told you what would come of this: beseech you,
Deny their office: only you do lack
As to be cast forth in the common air,
Enter MARK ANTONY and VENTIDIUS
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
Marry, my uncle Clarence' angry ghost:
Of nothing so much as that I am not like Timon.
Still seem as does the king.
Write, write, that from the bloody course of war
And fiends will snatch at it. Cold, cold, my girl!
Against my brother Lucius?
So perhaps did yours.
should he do here?
He dies upon my scimitar's sharp point
Let me speak:
O, they eat lords; so they come by great bellies.
The valiant Paris seeks you for his love.
O, then the earth shook to see the heavens on fire,
And victory, with little loss, doth play
the guilt of premeditated and contrived murder;
My babes were destined to a fairer death,
But life, being weary of these worldly bars,
Get you home, boy. Come, we stay too long.
And buy men's voices to commend our deeds:
O sweet Oliver,
Love goes toward love, as schoolboys from
say is a gallimaufry of gambols, because they are
let me in.
He that is robb'd, not wanting what is stol'n,
And mortal eyes cannot endure the devil.
That greatness should so grossly offer it:
good voice, sir; what say you?
Come, come; thou'lt do thy message, wilt thou not?
Being native burghers of this desert city,
Jeweller: We'll bear, with your lordship.
Rash, inconsiderate, fiery voluntaries,
I am to-day i' the vein of chivalry:
So that, by this, you would not have him die.
her than she'll demand.
If you will not undo what you have done, that is,
Exit HORATIO
Of our proceedings here: on the marketplace,
Who set this ancient quarrel new abroach?
To thee, Posthumus.
He! no, she'll none of him; they two are twain.
Winchester goose, I cry, a rope! a rope!
Courageously and with a free desire
And I mine. I remember, when I was in love I broke
Nor thrust your head into the public street
Solemn music. Enter, as in an apparition,  SICILIUS LEONATUS, father to Posthumus Leonatus,  an old man, attired like a warrior; leading in  his hand an ancient matron, his wife, and mother  to Posthumus Leonatus, with music before them:  then, after other music, follow the two young  Leonati, brothers to Posthumus Leonatus, with  wounds as they died in the wars. They circle Posthumus Leonatus round, as he lies sleeping
In a litigious peace. You, and your lady,
Petruchio is my name; Antonio's son,
And chance it as it may.
Demetrius, I will keep my word with thee.
What lets but one may enter at her window?
But as the fierce vexation of a dream.
Learn him forbearance from so foul a wrong.
For you shall sup with Jesu Christ to-night.
like it very well; but in respect that it is
There's beggary in the love that can be reckon'd.
My lord, I have consider'd with myself
That would hang us, every mother's son.
I give him you, the noblest that survives,
Why is this reason'd?
Caesar, I shall.
come I to my mother: O, that she could speak now
leak in your chimney; and your chamber-lie breeds
Exeunt
My heart is not compact of flint nor steel;
process-server, a bailiff; then he compassed a
Hark! more knocking.
Where eyes did once inhabit, there were crept,
Take this from this, if this be otherwise:
I know it;
And graze in commons.
Either in hope or present, I'ld exchange
Consent to pay thee that I never had!
Setting endeavour in continual motion;
So, sir: I desire of you
So sorrow's heaviness doth heavier grow
her? Come, draw this curtain, and let's see your
Whereof you are a well-deserving pillar,
A monk o' the Chartreux.
O, find him! give this ring to my true knight,
Perfume for a lady's chamber;
This royal infant--heaven still move about her!--
lute-case, bore it twelve leagues, and sold it for
Here on my knee, before high heaven and you,
But wherefore stay we? 'tis no time to talk.
Shall I re-deliver you e'en so?
By gar, me do look he shall clapper-de-claw me;
They shall be satisfied: I'll read enough,
deliver to Desdemona would half have corrupted a
What majesty is in her gait? Remember,
With the health that Pompey gives him, else he is a
Thou hast prevail'd; I pardon them and thee:
First hand me: on mine own accord I'll off;
Exeunt CAMBRIDGE, SCROOP and GREY, guarded
Come to what is important in't: I forgive you the praise.
The most diminutive of birds, will fight,
Condemn'd upon the act of fornication
All with weary task fordone.
Thou diedst, a most rare boy, of melancholy.
Nor for yours neither. You've ungently, Brutus,
My scars can witness, dumb although they are,
I needs must think it honesty. Camillo,
O most false love!
Is all as monstrous to our human reason
There you shall find three of your argosies
And shalt be ever.
They are entirely welcome.
Instantly know; and of that letter too:
offenceless dog to affright an imperious lion: sue
The bitter disposition of the time
What say you, uncle?
The packet, Cromwell.
If, Biondello, thou wert come ashore,
Exit FALSTAFF
Their heads, I mean. O, how this villany
O, had we never, never hunted there!--
Their backward course, bearing with frank appearance
I thank thee, good Tubal: good news, good news!
Though age from folly could not give me freedom,
Makes us traduced and tax'd of other nations:
To fine the faults whose fine stands in record,
Rode he on Barbary? Tell me, gentle friend,
DON
Not well.
The Lord in heaven bless thee, noble Harry!
To lead their business: in which regard,
That scarce, some two days since, were worth a noble.
Lady, you have. Pray you, peruse that letter.
Go; I come, I come.
On capital treason; and, in thine attaint,
That here come sacrifices for the field:
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
So feat, so nurse-like: let his virtue join
O, that must be
Escalus.
As fox to lamb, as wolf to heifer's calf,
The like do you: so shall we pass along
burrows, like conies after rain, and revel all with
A vessel under sail, so men obey'd
The time is unagreeable to this business:
Of watery Neptune, is now bound in with shame,
'Tis won as towns with fire, so won, so lost.
His soldiers spying his undaunted spirit
Nay, do not say, 'stand up;'
Well, Suffolk, thou shalt not see me blush
The excuse that thou dost make in this delay
And he that is so yoked by a fool,
Is there any unkindness between my lord and you, monsieur?
To desire this honest gentlewoman, your maid, to
near the altar, as high priestess; a number of
To dog his heels and curtsy at his frowns,
The time invites you; go; your servants tend.
To ORLANDO
Have wish'd that noble Brutus had his eyes.
Non eget Mauri jaculis, nec arcu.'
But me and mine: how happy art thou, then,
I'll strive, with troubled thoughts, to take a nap,
It should none spare that come within his power.
Alone, in company, still my care hath been
But doth rebate and blunt his natural edge
What doth her beauty serve, but as a note
Lo, here I lend thee this sharp-pointed sword;
For giving it to me. Well, peace be with you!
Be pleased to tell us--
Sing willow, willow, willow;
Sir, as I think.
Made good the passage; cried to those that fled,
Her private actions to your secrecy;
well cut,' he would answer, I spake not true: this
Come, mistress Kate, I'll bear you company.
Marvellous well for the pen.
Soundly, my lord.
On, on, on, on, on! to the breach, to the breach!
As his own state and ours,--'tis to be chid
Mars his true moving, even as in the heavens
We will descend and fold him in our arms.
hurt done! Though honesty be no puritan, yet it
My legs, like loaden branches, bow to the earth,
Was fast belock'd in thine; this is the body
I do remember it; and here take my leave,
as good go a mile on his errand.
If we should serve with horse and mares together,
strumpet in my bed; the testimonies whereof lie
And so we will, provided that he win her.
And bless us with her former qualities.
You have but jested with me all this while:
more, but to the matter: my mother, you say,--
No more dams I'll make for fish
That never words were music to thine ear,
Yet hath a woman's kindness over-ruled:
And mean to make her queen of England.
To tell us this.
Hugh? no; he gives me the proverbs and the
I fly, Biondello: but they may chance to need thee
Tying him to aught; so putting him to rage,
Dull not device by coldness and delay.
My hearty friends,
I do not fear it; I have seen you both:
There's enough to make us all.
Exeunt Citizens
You are of our chamber, and our mind partakes
I give a sparing limit to my tongue.
For he hath stolen a pax, and hanged must a' be:
Which would be great impeachment to his age,
No, not all these, thrice-gorgeous ceremony,
For thee I'll lock up all the gates of love,
Going to chapel; and the voice is now
town, are come to fetch you to church.
They're here with me already, whispering, rounding
Receive each other. God speak this Amen!
Come hither, boy: if ever thou shalt love,
I hope so: go and search.
livest, dear Kate, take a fellow of plain and
You serve Octavius Caesar, do you not?
To note the chamber: I will write all down:
And so adieu, sweet Jude! nay, why dost thou stay?
But do you hear, sir? have you married my daughter
isle of Cyprus and our noble general Othello!
I and my bosom must debate awhile,
Am I this patient log--man.
Why, he that cuts off twenty years of life
What, what, ye sanguine, shallow-hearted boys!
I know not, madam: 'tis too bad, too bad.
Thou movest no less with thy complaining than
In honour of whose birth these triumphs are,
Hath put himself in arms: the adverse winds,
To execution and the hand of death.
But I am faint, my gashes cry for help.
ANTIPHOLUS
Exeunt HENRY PERCY and Lords
I may entitle thee my loving father:
Take them in.
Enter LOVEL and RATCLIFF, with HASTINGS' head
For they succeed on you. To you, lord governor,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
But you are more inhuman, more inexorable,
Enter KING RICHARD II, with BAGOT and GREEN at one door; and the DUKE OF AUMERLE at another
Whither away! to save myself by flight:
For you have but mistook me all this while:
Come, bring away the plaintiffs: by this time our
Comes to the entertainer--
I am sorry, one so learned and so wise
As dim and meagre as an ague's fit,
Audacious cruelty. If that the king
Was't you that revell'd in our parliament,
A widow cries; be husband to me, heavens!
Me cause to wail but teachest me the way
knows himself to be a fool.' The heathen
who committed treason enough for God's sake,
His name is Romeo, and a Montague;
clovest thy crown i' the middle, and gavest away
For when I was a king, my flatterers
Nor fear of bad success in a bad cause,
Sir Topas, never was man thus wronged: good Sir
How your state stands i' the world, with the whole world?
lungs are tickled o' the sere; and the lady shall
Be as a planetary plague, when Jove
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
What, are you chafed?
So quick bright things come to confusion.
I have consider'd well his loss of time
discarded unjust serving-men, younger sons to
In that each of you have forsworn his book,
But as successively from blood to blood,
Thus has he--and many more of the same bevy that I
Or else he must not only die the death,
You are moved, prince; let us depart, I pray you,
Expire before their fashions.' This he wish'd;
Nothing at all, unless that this were she.
Thou still hast been the father of good news.
A man he is of honest and trust:
That sport best pleases that doth least know how:
But did my brother set thee on to this?
Tell thou the lamentable tale of me
'Here you may see Benedick the married man.'
My life as soon: I do defy thee, France.
Your scruple to the voice of Christendom:
Ay, so he says.
Enter PANTHINO
When that I say the city-woman bears
All wound with adders who with cloven tongues
would open his lips when he put it into his mouth;
Revive, look up, or I will die with thee!
Come on, my son, in whom my house's name
Sir,
Exit
worth the eating.
That appertain to you? Am I yourself
'Tis meet so, daughter: but lest you do repent,
Never,--O fault!--reveal'd myself unto him,
Shaking the bloody fingers of thy foes,
He must think us some band of strangers i' the
To be acknowledged: thou a sceptre's heir,
The need we have to use you did provoke
him, SURREY, bearing the rod of silver with
And, but she spoke it dying, I would not
Shaken with sorrows in ungrateful Rome.
made me businesses which none without thee can
Lucilius, do you the like; and let no man
We three are married, but you two are sped.
--odours savours sweet:
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
To chide at your extremes it not becomes me:
Ay, my lord;
Enter Servants with a basket
No more yielding but a dream,
And not these bastard Bretons; whom our fathers
If thou dost play with him at any game,
Which better than the first, O dear heaven, bless!
My sovereign liege, no letters; and few words,
Boult!
Hence will I drag thee headlong by the heels
Crook-knee'd, and dew-lapp'd like Thessalian bulls;
With fiery eyes sparkling for very wrath,
Do you quarrel, sir?
Tying thine ear to no tongue but thine own!
Should, without eyes, see pathways to his will!
Seek for thy noble father in the dust:
hath made him that gracious denial which he is most
An angry brow, dread lord.
Erroneous, mutinous and unnatural,
Lend me your hands; to the next chamber bear her.
My lord, this is one Lucio's information against me.
in the wood; our vizards we will change after we
worship's presence, ha' ta'en a couple of as arrant
With great creating nature.
spirit, which you have not, a beard neglected,
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers,
This man said, sir, that Don John, the prince's
Who does it, then? His madness: if't be so,
There was it:
Thou fellow, a word:
Hark! the drums
Haste, signify so much; while we attend,
We have consented to all terms of reason.
dreamest not of, the which for sport sake are
subject, makes old hearts fresh: they that went on
Exit EMILIA
Better than you yourself. Therefore, I pray you,
Nor faint in the pursuit.
When they change us for others? Is it sport?
Warwick, these words have turn'd my hate to love;
motions. Shall I lose my parson, my priest, my Sir
Young son, it argues a distemper'd head
your hovel.
But I believe, although I seem so loath,
Why, then, build me thy fortunes upon the basis of
I never shall endure her: dear my lord,
Your enemies and his find something in him.
And God defend but still I should stand so,
Apollo would, this being indeed the issue
I think it doth: is't frailty that thus errs?
Such Ethiope words, blacker in their effect
My fair rose wither: yet look up, behold,
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
that is, the old duke is banished by his younger
And of their feather many more proud birds,
Shall I dash out. Go, take it to the fire;
Die the death:
Along with me.
My lord, he is but even now gone hence:
Meeting the cheque of such another day:
Her head's declined, and death will seize her, but
Yea; and my father.
Our doubts are traitors
Indeed, you come near me now, Hal; for we that take
have sent to thee, to receive the meed of
Stand gracious to the rites that we intend!
'Faith, half asleep.
Is far beyond a prince's delicates,
appearance of a naked blind boy in her naked seeing
It is not for your health thus to commit
To grace thy marriage-day, I'll beautify.
O Jupiter, how weary are my spirits!
Therefore of all hands must we be forsworn.
wherein you're happy,--which you'll make him know,
It shall be what o'clock I say it is.
Not a whit: I have a device to make all well.
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
He will repent the breadth of his great voyage;
Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gloucester?
As, not to see a woman in that term,
Ah, Lucius, for thy brothers let me plead.
Retires
I make as little doubt, as you do conscience
Let us on heaps go offer up our lives.
Why, all this business
Let copulation thrive; for Gloucester's bastard son
To bar your highness claiming from the female,
That she is issue to a faithless Jew.
His fault concludes but what the law should end,
his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be
That upon Sunday is the wedding-day.
intelligence of this whore: the parrot will not
And let the wise man fly:
On Fortinbras: he has my dying voice;
honesty coupled to beauty is to have honey a sauce to sugar.
Here was he merry, hearing of a song.
O heavens! O wife, look how our daughter bleeds!
Make such unconstant children of ourselves,
I think it is good morrow, is it not?
And yet words are no deeds. My father loved you:
Promotion follows. If I could find example
I blame you not for praising Caesar so;
To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue--
Keeps place with thought and almost, like the gods,
Which serve not for his vantage, be shakes off;
The Viscount Rochford,--one of her highness' women.
Ah, thou, the model where old Troy did stand,
Alas, the day!
As you, Lord Angelo, have still appear'd,
his suit and lead him on with a fine-baited delay,
we go seek Benedick, and tell him of her love?
However he puts on this tardy form.
Within this hour it will be dinner-time:
increase and there was never virgin got till
None that I know will be, much that I fear may chance.
What good is cover'd with the face of heaven,
Then, have I reason to be fond of grief?
Lord! when 'twas a little prating thing:--O, there
Think when we talk of horses, that you see them
spectators, the dish pays the shot.
All the power of his wits have given way to his
Save to the God of heaven and to my king;
There is some grudge between 'em, 'tis not meet
De nails, de arm, de ilbow.
Their wonted liveries, and the mazed world,
And, if we meet, we shall not scape a brawl;
What say you to his expertness in war?
I do, Mark Antony.
And his comrades, that daff'd the world aside,
the Worthy, but I am to stand for him.
I am content.
one.
Now for the rebels which stand out in Ireland,
Steep'd in the faultless blood of pretty Rutland--
Three or four miles about, else had I, sir,
That struts and frets his hour upon the stage
Shall I be heard?
Now are we well resolved; and, by God's help,
For not bestowing on him, at his asking,
Edmund, enkindle all the sparks of nature,
'Nay,' said I, 'a good wit:' 'Just,' said she, 'it
You shall offend him and extend his passion:
Follow me, then,
For, as I am a man, I think this lady
But purgatory, torture, hell itself.
With meditating that she must die once,
In deadly hate the one against the other:
[Within]  Brother Troilus!
O, vassal! miscreant!
Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this fashion i'
I go. Write to me very shortly.
If I could see them.
Enter QUEEN KATHARINE and her Women, as at work
Yea, are you so brief?
And would be glad he met with some mischance,
Should sure to the slaughter,
You writ to the pope against the king: your goodness,
Then never trust me, if I be afeard.
Enter ROBIN
I have been talking with a suitor here,
Even here, between the chaste unsmirched brow
Till he faced the slave;
[Singing]  I call'd my love false love; but what
When I will wear a garment all of blood
This is the excellent foppery of the world, that,
Tell not me; when the butt is out, we will drink
Whence camest thou, worthy thane?
ever chewed with a tooth. Eight yards of uneven
And no.
Let grow thy sinews till their knots be strong,
Does she love him?
May not one speak?
Who would believe me? O perilous mouths,
'Item: She hath more hair than wit,'--
They all shout and wave their swords, take him up in their arms, and cast up their caps
My master's.
Marry, sir, here's my drift;
Nay, if an oily palm be not a fruitful
Yea, at all points; and longs to enter in.
I ne'er saw Syracusa in my life.
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently;
I feel master's passion! this slave,
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS
For I am she, and altogether joyless.
In London streets, that coronation-day,
Are my discourses dull? barren my wit?
All circumstances well considered.
In honestest defence.
Heavens make a star of him! Yet there, my queen,
de, do de, do de. Bless thee from whirlwinds,
With those gross taunts I often have endured.
If such a one will smile and stroke his beard,
thunderbolt.
As 'twere from us all, a man distill'd
To better vantage.
For well I know he was unnatural.
The tenth of August last this dreadful lord,
To what I ask you.
Good Marcius home again.
o' the song: would God would serve the world so all
And only that I stand for. I appeal
And I for comfort have but one false glass,
She is not bred so dull but she can learn;
And so in me; and so, I think, in all:
Give the word, ho! and stand.
Are they return'd?
Upon this shore, where you were wreck'd, was landed,
No, they cannot touch me for coining; I am the
Our purses shall be proud, our garments poor;
Speak to the people, and they pity her.
Sir, I invite your highness and your train
Was ever man so proud as is this Marcius?
but his lackey: 'tis a hooded valour; and when it
Five summers have I spent in furthest Greece,
And very courtly counsel: I'll begin.
And so I am: then crushing penury
We thank your grace.
Well, Angelo, your evil quits you well:
Lord Stafford's father, Duke of Buckingham,
My gracious lord,
Diable! Jack Rugby,--mine host de Jarteer,--have I
Than twenty of their swords: look thou but sweet,
Burn itself out. If Edgar live, O, bless him!
And the rich East to boot.
We will afflict the emperor in his pride.
You'll speak with Coriolanus.
the dawning as we do.
Exeunt
Good my lord, be cured
More like an empress than Duke Humphrey's wife:
I have seen the day, with my good biting falchion
As common bruit doth put it.
And so will I.
To that your diamond; I'll keep them.
John. A strange fish! Were I in England now,
Well, Petruchio, this has put me in heart.
Strike, drum.
My son is lost and, in my rate, she too,
More hateful to mine ear.
But what says Jupiter, I ask thee?
dry oats. Methinks I have a great desire to a bottle
To vie strange forms with fancy; yet, to imagine
Maliciously like poison: but I cannot
Exeunt
His mother was a votaress of my order:
If you say so, I hope you will not kill me.
Sir, I commend you to your own content.
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre,
God shield you mean it not! daughter and mother
To die by thee were but to die in jest;
Bear't that the opposed may beware of thee.
Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves
I could have given less matter
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO in his own habit, and FRIAR PETER
Kind souls, what, weep you when you but behold
A lady, sir, though it was said she much resembled
allegiance, mark you this, on my allegiance. He is
his legs are legs for necessity, not for flexure.
O, marry me to one Frances: I smell some l'envoy,
Stand by, a looker on.
No, no, no, no, no.
By Jove, 'twould be my mind!
That thou shalt do no murder: and wilt thou, then,
I cannot speak
In heaps and piles of ruin.
There's an Italian come; and, 'tis thought, one of
Have we more sons? or are we like to have?
That you shall be new-christen'd in the Tower.
And made the most notorious geck and gull
So frown'd he once, when, in an angry parle,
shepherd; but I seek my master, and my master seeks
Exit POLONIUS
Away with her! Poor soul,
I will appear, and fight.
I gave her such a one; 'twas my first gift.
These cates resist me, she but thought upon.
That makes the weight: had I great Juno's power,
There's nothing here that is too good for him
'Tis unnatural,
'Tis done already, and the messenger gone.
ANTIPHOLUS
One that composed your beauties, yea, and one
No.
That's all one: has hurt me, and there's the end
Pins, wooden pricks, nails, sprigs of rosemary;
Athwart men's noses as they lie asleep;
Farewell, good Charles.
Therefore thy threatening colours now wind up;
Sooth, la, I'll help: thus it must be.
Laid nobly on her: which perform'd, the choir,
thinking? Sure, they sleep; he hath no use of them.
ta'en a thousand pound this day morning.
Are you a courtier, an't like you, sir?
Say 'I am none of thine.'
themselves, they may pass for excellent men. Here
At every joint and motive of her body.
Ay, sir; but she will none, she gives you thanks.
My name is Edgar, and thy father's son.
O, sir, content you;
How now! interjections? Why, then, some be of
That others do--
ANTIPHOLUS
Then, for the third part of a minute, hence;
Than I by letters shall direct your course.
Seese is not good to give putter; your belly is all putter.
Alas, my lord, I have but kill'd a fly.
But he's an arrant knave.
To LADY ANNE
Nor could the noble Mortimer
Thou hadst been a knave and flatterer.
We shall hear music, wit and oracle.
'Tis the Lord Hastings, the king's chiefest friend.
This is strange: methinks
O, wonder!
Putting a bracelet upon her arm
You might have rhymed.
And now in peace my soul shall part to heaven,
that beggar Posthumus, thou canst not, in the
Some falls are means the happier to arise.
Unpeopled offices, untrodden stones?
Your son, my lord, has paid a soldier's debt:
a cudgel; and yet my mind gave me his clothes made a
Let your best love draw to that point, which seeks
And this.
her face and so disfigure her with it that she
If my shirt were bloody, then to shift it. Have I hurt him?
I likewise hear that Valentine is dead.
Go speedily and bring again the count.
Namely to appeal each other of high treason.
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And take foul scorn to fawn on him by sending.
And say it was thy mother that thou meant'st
Who can be patient in such extremes?
Up.
During the wars of York and Lancaster
CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO, are driven out
learning, gentleness, virtue, youth, liberality,
Show me thy humble heart, and not thy knee,
That ever did contain a thing of worth.
I will tell you, sir, if you will give me the hearing.
An't please your majesty, 'tis the gage of one that
And that same vengeance doth he hurl on thee,
Stabs him
Are his wits safe? is he not light of brain?
Rebellious subjects, enemies to peace,
With golden promises; that, were his heart
What tumult's this?
Fear not you that. Go get us properties
Exit LUCIUS
his grace, and his majesty too!
I'll fill these dogged spies with false reports:
O, vile! then, as she goes, what upward lies
The inhospitable Cleon; but I am
he see me, you shall see him nod at me.
My medicine, work! Thus credulous fools are caught;
I dedicate myself to your sweet pleasure,
I have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense,
A husband! a devil.
Now judge what cause had Titus to revenge
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
God pless it and preserve it, as long as it pleases
Do well thrive by them and when they have lined
That dares not undertake: he'll not feel wrongs
I love thee not.
I hope, in no place so unsanctified
Good my lord,
native garb, he could not therefore handle an
Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith.
I pray you, daughter, sing; or express yourself in a
SCENE VIII. London. The palace.
Thy youngest daughter does not love thee least;
Such proclamation hath been made, my liege.
At Berkley castle.
How earnestly they knock! Pray you, come in:
You're well met once again.
excellent perfume.
That Falstaff at that oak shall meet with us.
That tempts most cunningly: but be not tempted.
creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves for
Her sight did ravish; but her grace in speech,
in single oppositions: yet this imperceiverant
Caesar: and that, having in Sicily
Away with him, away with him! he speaks Latin.
Edward the Fourth, by the grace of God, king of
When I desire it too.
Read to her sons than she hath read to thee
Take't up, I say; give't to thy crone.
Last, that the Lady Anne,
A fellow by the hand of nature mark'd,
Were there no more but it.
comptible, even to the least sinister usage.
Till either death hath closed these eyes of mine
Enter Guard
Much upon this it is: and might not you
I aim'd so near, when I supposed you loved.
As in his shape. Go, sirrah, to my cell;
Obscured in the circle of this forest.
Very well met, and well come.
Grace go with you, Benedicite!
The king hath heard them; to the which as yet
Of such a time: being my sworn servant,
If frosts and fasts, hard lodging and thin weeds
A pox o' your throat, you bawling, blasphemous,
So, so, there!
Have the disease, and feel't not. How now, boy!
For choosing me when Clarence is in place.
swarths: the best persuaded of himself, so
And well am like to do; for, I perceive,
himself possessed him, yet I'll speak to him.
And tell me now, sweet friend, what happy gale
Her life was beast-like, and devoid of pity;
I would have you.
No die, but an ace, for him; for he is but one.
They were suborn'd:
'Tis well consented: presently away;
Let me be punish'd, that have minded you
Whither will you have me? Why do you weep?
Think true love acted simple modesty.
against her heir.
Into an hour-glass: for the which supply,
another. This making Christians will raise the
Which, in the day of battle, tire thee more
My man of men.
Are heavy orisons 'gainst this poor wretch!
Does fall in travail with her fear:
the commonwealth, and turn it, and set a new nap upon it.
'Tis the old Nestor.
Live register'd upon our brazen tombs
Is it more sin to wish me thus forsworn,
Expected: since he went from Egypt 'tis
O constancy, be strong upon my side,
Well, then, farewell.
If, Duke of Burgundy, you would the peace,
SCENE I. Milan. The DUKE's palace.
My general will forget my love and service.
To strengthen and support King Edward's place.
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Nor purposed merit in futurity,
He calls to horse; but will I know not whither.
lady within?
Thoughts speculative their unsure hopes relate,
A right description of our sport, my lord.
To fair content and you: none here, he hopes,
Gallow the very wanderers of the dark,
Henry is dead and never shall revive:
With this cramm'd reason: reason and respect
'Twixt these extremes at all.
Well, but what's o'clock?
Reports but coarsely of her.
Thy now unsured assurance to the crown,
perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little
folly! I am afraid this great lubber, the world,
To recompense your love: doubt not but heaven
To hear the rest untold: sir, lead's the way.
It might; but it is not now.
His subjects to oppression and contempt
If what in rest you have in right you hold,
Why then your fears, which, as they say, attend
When such bad dealings must be seen in thought.
My clouted brogues from off my feet, whose rudeness
No, Cassius, no: think not, thou noble Roman,
By this alliance to make void my suit:
My foreward shall be drawn out all in length,
And browner than her brother.' Are not you
never draw sword again.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
Nay, it is my maid's aunt of Brentford.
mark the sequel, Master Brook: I suffered the pangs
I know not.
Sit,--and some wine! A health to Lepidus!
Into a rapture lets her baby cry
This arm upholds the house of Lancaster.
O heaven! O heavenly powers!
flowers and smile upon his fingers' ends, I knew
the place, and the condition of this country
Go, stand within; let me alone with him.
For none offend where all alike do dote.
Do as I bid you; shut doors after you:
Be thou blest, Bertram, and succeed thy father
is a nobleman in town, one Paris, that would fain
Of bold-faced victory. Then leaden age,
The Dukes of Orleans, Calaber, Bretagne and Alencon,
As hot Lord Percy is on fire to go.
I say, amen.
They have been violent to me and mine.
me, yet have I the benefit of my senses as well as
Upon your heads--is nothing but heart-sorrow
Being so far provoked as I was in France, I would
she kept it,
And thou redeem'st thyself: but all, save thee,
Show'd like a stubble-land at harvest-home;
'Tis wondrous strange, the like yet never heard of.
Wither goes Vaux so fast? what news, I prithee?
I do never use it.
And false.
Of his behavior.
SCENE I. A hall in LEONATO'S house.
In the adventure of this perilous day.
Enter ROSALIND for Ganymede, CELIA for Aliena, and TOUCHSTONE
As to be call'd but viceroy of the whole?
Notorious wrong.
To make her speak as move.
Sheep run not half so treacherous from the wolf,
Was once thought honest: you have loved him well.
ANTIPHOLUS
The wine peep through their scars. Come on, my queen;
In brief, sir, sith it your pleasure is,
Cannot be question'd.
All the commons
Look, look! O heavy day!
woes also: and yet there is a virtuous man whom I
O brother, help me with thy fainting hand--
Did not deserve corn gratis. Being i' the war
had he done to you?
Enter OXFORD, with drum and colours
I am content, in a good father's care,
and bleed to death upon. Now, the dry serpigo on
Along with me: I'll see what hole is here,
[Kneeling]  Pardon, sweet father.
Weigh you the worth and honour of a king
How should I be revenged? If this be true,--
Clock to itself, knew the true minute when
Though twenty thousand worthier come to crave her.
Pray God he do! he'll never know himself else.
And damnable ingrateful: nor was't much,
Well.
I'll never wear hair on my face more. You Prince of Wales!
Friends to this ground.
My liege, this was my glove; here is the fellow of
Less impudence to gainsay what they did
Then all too late comes counsel to be heard,
changes I perceived in the king and Camillo were
wouldst not be a villain, but do me true service,
fingers off it. And then he offered it the third
Vouchsafe to read the purpose of my coming,
From your kind aunt, Duchess of Burgundy,
That make ingrateful man!
Pray, sit; more welcome are ye to my fortunes
that when thou art inclined to sleep.
Lord of thy presence and no land beside?
limits of order.
If it please me, madam, what then?
hair is my father, and all the rest are his sons.'
so. Now come I to my father; Father, your blessing:
so with him.
SCENE III. Dunsinane. A room in the castle.
Commotions, uproars, with a general taint
not bite another, and wherefore should one bastard?
In rage dismiss'd my father from the court;
With thine, and all that offer to defend him,
Her heart weighs sadly: this young maid might do her
Without a tongue, using conceit alone,
Not altogether so:
what marriage is: this fellow will but join you
And to thee and thy company I bid
A tempest, which his mortal vessel tears,
That if he overhold his price so much,
Exit POLONIUS
victory in his pocket? the wounds become him.
Here comes the man, sir, that did rescue me.
Why Somerset should be preferred in this.
But did I never speak of all that time?
Return me, as Cominius is return'd,
His treasons will sit blushing in his face,
Amen to that, sweet powers!
Sweet lady, entertain him for your servant.
And let go by the actor.
For King of England shalt thou be proclaim'd
To this effect, Achilles, have I moved you:
Robin Starveling, the tailor.
saying was born, of 'I fear no colours.'
The proudest of them shall well hear of it.
Re-enter Provost
How does my queen? Thou stormest venomously;
To bear my greeting to the senators
He seizes her
Of hinds and peasants, rude and merciless:
But mount you presently and meet with me
What are you sewing here? A fine spot, in good
And here am I, and wode within this wood,
He started one poor heart of mine in thee.
and his good will obtained: name the day of
I dare adventure to be sent to the Tower.
Into the danger of this adverse town;
What two things?
I'll be thy second.
perpend: civet is of a baser birth than tar, the
A giant traitor!
I told my lord the duke, by the devil's illusions
For Valentine, I need not cite him to it:
It shall become to serve all hopes conceived,
They call for dates and quinces in the pastry.
And found him pight to do it, with curst speech
Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak,
Hold thy desperate hand:
cannot be spoken of. There might you have beheld one
Envy and base opinion set against 'em,
You must lay lime to tangle her desires
honourable gentleman: tricks he hath had in him,
Thou, it seems, that calls for company to
Where, I confess, I slept not, but profess
And yet I would that you would answer me.
He chid Andromache and struck his armourer,
'Tis very true: O wise and upright judge!
churchyard,
You will lose this wager, my lord.
For your fit welcome. Give ear, sir, to my sister;
Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy.
I must be gone.
repute and carriage.
Enter JUNO
Free from oppression or the stroke of war,
I do, my lord; and in her eye I find
Alarum: excursions. Enter TALBOT led by a Servant
She's apt to learn and thankful for good turns.
Than the constraint of hospitable zeal
Have fill'd their pockets full of pebble stones
If you'll go fetch him,
Drop on you both! a south-west blow on ye
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
A sight to vex the father's soul withal.
Look, as I blow this feather from my face,
Foot it featly here and there;
Who, tendering their own worth from where they were glass'd,
is Claudio. I have known when there was no music
upon the least occasion more mine eyes will tell
I am aweary of this moon: would he would change!
His powerful sound within an organ weak:
Aside
He but usurp'd his life.
Thou know'st she has raised me from my sickly bed.
As reek o' the rotten fens, whose loves I prize
Anne the jest, how my father stole two geese out of
Like to the empress' Moor; therefore I kill'd him.
Better it were a brother died at once,
I pray thee, Rosalind, sweet my coz, be merry.
When he was personal in the Irish war.
To visit me. You know your office, brother:
It is religion that doth make vows kept;
To think upon the part of business which
Long may he live in fortunes! Shall we in?
Nothing but thunder! Merciful Heaven,
We'll chide this Dauphin at his father's door.
And by a gem of women, to be abused
ACT IV
And is in full commission here for Cyprus.
you up. Boult's returned.
The natural bravery of your isle, which stands
Well, I hope it be not so.
Full often hath she gossip'd by my side,
fish for she would not exchange flesh with one that
Exeunt
Ay: saw you any thing?
This must not be:' and then I precepts gave her,
You see it lawful, then: it is no more,
Come, Mother Prat; come, give me your hand.
we'll have flesh for holidays, fish for
'First of the king: what shall of him become?'
'Tis like she comes to speak of Cassio's death.--
Next to thyself and my young rover, he's
SCENE I. A heath.
Will serve our long inter'gatories. See,
I do not doubt
Were never for a piece of beauty rarer,
miracle: yet, in a sort, lechery eats itself.
Which was the model of that Danish seal;
sigh like Tom o' Bedlam. O, these eclipses do
Caesar must bleed for it! And, gentle friends,
Exit Servant
[Aside to her sons]  What say you, boys? will you
ACT III
Why we ascribe it to him; yet all his virtues,
No, by my honour, madam, by my soul,
Exit
Far from this country Pindarus shall run,
jealous in France.
Your highness with an heir!
Supplied with worthy men! plant love among 's!
Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call thus:
Stick fiery off indeed.
Re-enter Servant, with wine
Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows,
And giddy Fortune's furious fickle wheel,
Why, York, what wilt thou do?
Ariel and all his quality.
play, I remember, pleased not the million; 'twas
Most noble brother, you have done me wrong.
But, my lord,
doublet quickly.
I neither care for the world nor your general: for
Good friend, go to him; for, by this light of heaven,
Thou art going to Lord Timon's feast?
A wilderness is populous enough,
It is my duty, sir.
Caesar must think,
Wear this for me, one out of suits with fortune,
I shall no leading need.
True, and they are to meddle with none but the
Clerk, draw a deed of gift.
Sir, I will pronounce your sentence: you shall fast
That, ere the next Ascension-day at noon,
Was he mad, sir?
thee, nuncle; thou hast pared thy wit o' both sides,
That any drop thou borrow'dst from thy mother,
Take up the rays o' the beneficial sun
To take advantage of the absent time
Betwixt the Duke of Gloucester and your brothers,
Exeunt all but Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse
Hearest thou, Biondello?
Will strike amazement to their drowsy spirits:
That horse and sail and high expense
dimensions, senses, affections, passions? fed with
I will keep still with my philosopher.
Enter a Priest
Though news be sad, yet tell them merrily;
That it shall please you to declare, in hearing
Your brother is a forfeit of the law,
At mine, sir, and theirs that love music.
No further harm.
We doubt it nothing.
skim milk with so honourable an action! Hang him!
Alas, that love, whose view is muffled still,
Sit down: thou art no flatterer:
Marry, I will; and this is wisely done.
My name is Harry Percy.
No; rather I will go to Benedick
Things past redress are now with me past care.
O good Antonio, forgive me your trouble.
Upon the sobbing deer.
Raise all my kindred. Are they married, think you?
Exceeds man's might; that dwells with gods above.
censured here in the city, I mean of us o' the
Exit PETER
But what particular rarity? what strange,
A' said once, the devil would have him about women.
My dull deaf ears a little use to hear:
Like the old age.
sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the island.
How would you live, Pompey? by being a bawd? What
lady a merited benefit; redeem your brother from
That bastes his arrogance with his own seam
By certain scales i' the pyramid; they know,
Dictynna, goodman Dull; Dictynna, goodman Dull.
a bodkin's point.
It is not his, my lord; here Southam lies:
Men, wives and children stare, cry out and run
I'll be to Caesar; if thou pleasest not,
Why, thou wert better in thy grave than to answer
Kneels
soul being in heaven. Take away the fool, gentlemen.
My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind,
And, to the last, bended their light on me.
Is privilege for thy departure hence:
As himself pleased; and they were ratified
The Lords of Ross, Beaumond, and Willoughby,
My mildness hath allay'd their swelling griefs,
In drops of sorrow. Sons, kinsmen, thanes,
Enter OTHELLO, IAGO, and Attendants with torches
To ARTHUR
Peace, for shame, peace!
Will hold at Windsor; so inform the lords:
I should report this now, would they believe me?
A kind overflow of kindness: there are no faces
Upon whose age we void it up again,
Of his affection to me.
And so wast thou, Lord Hastings, when my son
And therefore frolic: we will hence forthwith,
How does your grace?
Some rare note-worthy object in thy travel:
Want wit in all one word to understand.
As that the sin hath brought you to this shame,
Would I had a rod in my mouth, that I might answer
away as nimbly, with as quick dexterity, and roared
What have we to do with Diana? Pray you, will you go with us?
That would divorce this terror from my heart;'
My mind she has mated, and amazed my sight.
Thou art a soul in bliss; but I am bound
So soon as yours could win me: so it should now,
Re-enter LUCIUS, with wine and taper
I must believe my master; else, I promise you,
Enter AJAX
But this, which they produce from Pharamond,
And you have found me; for accordingly
Will issue out again and bid us battle:
I must to him too,
I will not struggle, I will stand stone-still.
Hear me with patience.
Ha! art thou bedlam? dost thou thirst, base Trojan,
An't like your lordly lord-protectorship.
Let us assay our plot; which, if it speed,
to trouble himself with any such thoughts yet. So
My heart
And this is Edward's wife, that monstrous witch,
It shall be done.
In expectation of them. O dear father,
O gentle lady, do not put me to't;
He hence removed last night and with more haste
Not a penny. I have been content, sir, you should
I do desire to learn, sir: and I hope, if you have
Your wife, your son, these senators, the nobles;
To make a loathsome abject scorn of me:
Because he married me before to Romeo?
I will make fast the doors, and gild myself
And let young Arthur, Duke of Bretagne, in,
O Cressida! but that the busy day,
here but to thrash Trojans; and thou art bought and
Never.
The gates are open, let us enter too.
Exeunt
DON
This was but as a fly by an eagle: we had much more
God bless thee; and put meekness in thy mind,
Upon thy eye-balls murderous tyranny
And wrong the reputation of your name,
The opposite of itself: she's good, being gone;
Than the severity of the public power
rather shunned to go even with what I heard than in
This is my father's choice.
Thus honest fools lay out their wealth on court'sies.
She hales him up and down
Now, lords, take leave until we meet again,
Commit them to the fortune of the sea.
Sooner this sword shall plough thy bowels up.
The pine and cedar: graves at my command
Such as the fury of ungovern'd youth
Are the knights ready to begin the triumph?
Of Comagene; Polemon and Amyntas,
out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-
There is a devilish mercy in the judge,
speak you.
If trembling I inhabit then, protest me
The scriptures of the loyal Leonatus,
Exeunt
Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern
This deed will be well welcome to Lorenzo.
An if I have not, sir, I hope you have;
My numbers lessened, and those few I have
Sir,
And these, who often drown'd could never die,
She should not visit you.
Some blood drawn on me would beget opinion.
What answers Clarence to his sovereign's will?
Though you were born in Rome:' his bloody brow
Are bound to pray for you both.
And laboured all I could to do him right;
My disobedience 'gainst the king my father
Conferring them on younger strengths, while we
Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and SOMERSET
To be so bouted in this royal presence?
Our aediles smote? ourselves resisted? Come.
Uncle, even in the glasses of thine eyes
Which made the fault that we cannot correct,
That used me so; or else, by Jove I vow,
That I myself was to myself not mine,
My mistress Cleopatra sent me to thee.
Buz in the people's ears, there nought hath pass'd,
Be a sufficient ransom for offence,
are tasted, allow us as we prove; our head shall go
Truly, by your office, you may; but I think they
Of all the court and princes of my blood:
will awake it anon.
By their own fear or sloth.
wear their plackets where they should bear their
Or we are Romans and will give you that
God turn their hearts! I never sought their malice--
approves him an intelligent party to the advantages
Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he
SCENE II. London. The palace.
The chapel where they lie, and tears shed there
serenissima,--
O father Abram, what these Christians are,
any, speak; for him have I offended. Who is here so
Why, then the maid is mine from all the world,
Exit ALEXAS
Among my wife and her confederates,
In our dear peril.
Embracing him
with the gallows and what with poverty, I am
Ay, go your ways, go your ways; I knew what you
to be glad of yours.
Starr'd most unluckily, is from my breast,
as sure as his guts are made of puddings.
Yes; 'tis the list
The Castle in Saint Alban's, Somerset
I love no colours, and without all colour
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
Of my mistress, then.
Signior?
Albeit the quality of the time and quarrel
Lucius the Roman, comes to Milford-Haven
there's no going but by their consent: therefore I
Are therefore to be pitied.
Signior Leonato, let the friar advise you:
Deep, hollow, treacherous, and full of guile,
Claudio be executed by four of the clock; and in the
To beat us down, the which are down already;
Alack, alack!
You had musty victual, and he hath holp to eat it:
Stand away, Captain Gower; I will give treason his
You peers, continue this united league:
We'll try that; for I'll appoint my men to carry the
Or tie my treasure up in silken bags,
Know what they would.
Return to the tribunes.
Though fortune's malice overthrow my state,
And thou shalt find me at the governor's.
I am sure you both of you remember me.
Proceed.
Ay, now am I in Arden; the more fool I; when I was
POLONIUS hides behind the arras
That's it; I would have said the very same.
perfection of a good and particular mistress.
And here's the base fruit of his burning lust.
I can, Petruchio, help thee to a wife
Give me thy hand: thou shalt have a share in our
But send the midwife presently to me.
Exeunt the three Citizens
With thine entirely.
To my heart's hope! Gold; silver; and base lead.
For him, I partly know his mind--to find thee
Your kingdom's terror and black Nemesis?
By testament have given to the church
how does thine ague?
Why should I war without the walls of Troy,
With whom yourself, myself and other lords,
There is none worthy,
To fasten in our thoughts that they have courage;
To whom he sung, in rude harsh-sounding rhymes,
Impatient answers from my gentle tongue?
That for thy mother's fault art thus exposed
Enter GRATIANO
Fraught with the ministers and instruments
His daughter's woe and heavy well-a-day
Mars what it does; yea, very force entangles
Because my book preferr'd me to the king,
you'll be laughed at.
And here he means to spend his time awhile:
And ere we have thy youthful wages spent,
My death's sad tale may yet undeaf his ear.
She did betray me to my own reproof.
To do my work with haste.
In Syracusa was I born, and wed
White-liver'd runagate, what doth he there?
Nobody come? then shall I bleed to death.
Knowing him is enough. On's bed of death
My conceal'd lady to our cancell'd love?
Whose howl's his watch, thus with his stealthy pace.
From whence, fragment?
amity shall prove the immediate author of their
Must either punish me, not being believed,
Then must your brother die.
Into a havior of less fear, ere wildness
dial is now upon the prick of noon.
Till famine cling thee: if thy speech be sooth,
For what is in this world but grief and woe?
And say which grain will grow and which will not,
What woman's that?
that's mended is but patched: virtue that
That presses them and learns them first to bear,
With heart-blood of the house of Lancaster;
Lizard's leg and owlet's wing,
He prays you to save his life: he is a gentleman of
Aumerle, thou liest; his honour is as true
Enter ANTONY and others, with CAESAR's body
And let us two devise to bring him thither.
And churlish chiding of the winter's wind,
Rivers and Hastings, take each other's hand;
Banished Valentine.
To drench the Capitol; but that they would
Exeunt
the hip upward, no doublet. Unless he have a fancy
Lean, raw-boned rascals! who would e'er suppose
But soft, behold! lo, where it comes again!
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
Pray, speak in English: here are some will thank you,
Why makest thou it so strange?
Now took your brother's life; or, to redeem him,
All thin and naked, to the numb cold night?
A moiety of the world.
Methinks I see a quickening in his eye.
The swallow follows not summer more willing than we
most required and necessary.
Weary and old with service, to the mercy
None, sir, none.
time of lethargy I picked and cut most of their
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting,
Enters the gates
called, my young lady asked for, the nurse cursed in
Marry that will, I live and die a maid:
To seal love's bonds new-made, than they are wont
Leave nothing out for length, and make us think
Exeunt all but BENEDICK and BEATRICE
Who's there, I say? How dare you thrust yourselves
Get thee hence; farewell.
Which out of daily fortune ever taints
The story of that baleful burning night
Have some unhappy passenger in chase.
In zeal to you and highly moved to wrath
Join'd with an enemy proclaim'd and from his coffers
I had rather be a canker in a hedge than a rose in
Though I could wish
Though Fortune, visible an enemy,
Thou wouldst else have made thy tale large.
No.
And I will please you what you will demand.
And not send back my messenger.
This cannot be but a great courtier.
'Tis well bethought.
The true blank of thine eye.
The council shall bear it; it is a riot.
What ho, Malvolio!
You made great Juno angry.
am dejected; I am not able to answer the Welsh
O, he was gentle, mild, and virtuous!
What is his name?
Now, Hector, I have fed mine eyes on thee;
He loves your people
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
Which now bear evidence against my soul,
That you depart and lay no hands on me
The noble Westmoreland and warlike Blunt;
With me? and welcome: happy day, my lords.
very night.
And therefore I yield thee my free consent.
Ay, sir, and done too, for this time.
Vile earth, to earth resign; end motion here;
But first I'll do my errand. The good queen,
Trumpets; hautboys; drums beat; all together
'Stroy'd in dishonour.
You kiss by the book.
No excuse current, but to hang thyself.
and in this she manifests herself to my love, and
And doubt you not, right noble princes both,
hand into the bed and felt them, and they were as
Is to himself--I will not say how true--
No; Publius and Sempronius, you must do it;
To break the vow I am engaged in;
Now, good angels
Disloyal?
speaker is but a prater; a rhyme is but a ballad. A
Doth he hear it? no. 'Tis insensible, then. Yea,
Re-enter PATROCLUS
A better life. 'Tis paltry to be Caesar;
Can from his mother win the Duke of York,
So deal with him as I prove true to you.
I hope he is much grown since last I saw him.
So you, to study now it is too late,
Ay, Edward will use women honourably.
Yes, your renowned name: shall flight abuse it?
Are you moved, my lord?
What was a month old at Cain's birth, that's not five
Shall be my friend again and I'll be his:
Sever themselves and madly sweep the sky,
Else shall you not have any hand at all
Carried to Colmekill,
But what shall I gain by young Arthur's fall?
But love, dear love, and our aged father's right:
How now! who calls?
Out of the bloody fingers' ends of John.
They depart
To France, to France, and get what you have lost;
This but done,
On the sudden,
Till it cry sleep to death.
Answer his emptiness! Caesar, thou hast subdued
Must climb a bird's nest soon when it is dark:
Master Brook, that you have cozened of money, to
The business she hath broached in the state
O, God's will! much better
Well, your old vice still; mistake the word. What
To men that understand you, words and weakness.
Than in a nuncio's of more grave aspect.
Far from her nest the lapwing cries away:
Our party may well meet a prouder foe.
Samson, master: he was a man of good carriage, great
ANTIPHOLUS
But where's the body that I should embrace?
By self-unable motion: therefore dare not
Hold thy peace:
Hide it in smiles and affability:
And therefore level not to hit their lives.
If he will not stand when he is bidden, he is none
Both of Galen and Paracelsus.
Fight closer, or, good faith, you'll catch a blow.
of her first affection: his unjust unkindness, that
Storm still
Thou art the nonpareil.
Myself am moved to woo thee for my wife.
Beating him
My waters; on the earth, and not on him.
And when she is froward, peevish, sullen, sour,
To the house of Signior Baptista Minola?
From below your duke to beneath your constable, it
See, ruthless queen, a hapless father's tears:
he shows in this, he loves his own barn better than
I dare not, dear,--
That we come short of our suppose so far
You have heard of such a spirit, and well you know
Thou hadst but power over his mortal body,
I was too young that time to value her;
Ay, boy.
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
Dost thou love me? I know thou wilt say 'Ay,'
Dear lord, you are full of fair words.
Of your philosophy you make no use,
Farewell at once, for once, for all, and ever.
Post back with speed, and tell him what hath chanced:
For thy best use and wearing.
As Henry's late presaging prophecy
My Lord of Canterbury; and got your leave
Who's there? my woman Helen?
is, Master Page, fidelicet Master Page; and there is
Are you fair?
I may be negligent, foolish and fearful;
What think'st thou, then, of Stanley? what will he?
art piled, for a French velvet. Do I speak
O God!
And then the king will court thee for his dear;
that tears do not become a man.
In those that practise them they are, my lord.
You know an enemy intends you harm;
O, I smell false Latin; dunghill for unguem.
And, let me tell you, it will ne'er be well,
you are the first-born; but the same tradition
toward you peradventure than is in your knowledge to dream of.
Will I upon thy party wear this rose:
rightful heir to the crown?
The more fool you, for laying on my duty.
What, must I hold a candle to my shames?
Nothing confutes me but eyes, and nobody sees me.
Which who shall cross?--along to go:
I grant; as there may between the lists and the
Exit
These ducats pawn I for my father here.
I would not hear your enemy say so,
The noise goes, this: there is among the Greeks
Die I a villain, then!
and sowl the porter of Rome gates by the ears: he
Know them from eyes of other mortals?
Egregious murderer, thief, any thing
Should I do so, I should belie my thoughts:
It is most meet we arm us 'gainst the foe;
My lord, here are letters for you.
Pompey surnamed the Great;
I'll speak of her no more, nor of your children;
Dismounted from your snow-white goodly steed.
My purpose should not fail with me,
When icicles hang by the wall
of Hero's disloyalty that jealousy shall be called
chin, and one of them is white.
Fetter strong madness in a silken thread,
there was not any man died in his own person,
That hath made him mad.
And never borrow any tear of thee.
Sits smiling to my heart: in grace whereof,
Have to my widow! and if she be froward,
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones:
For that's my business to you--that you three
I am satisfied in nature,
I say, a moving grove.
The commons here in Kent are up in arms:
But he which bore my letter, Friar John,
A piteous corse, a bloody piteous corse;
And stay, good nurse, behind the abbey wall:
Richard du Champ.
Lie at the proud foot of a conqueror,
But took me in my throes;
Which I hope well is not enrolled there:
rapier, as I may, in fair terms: if you would walk
But he's a learned man. May he continue
As low as to the fiends!'
Till then in blood by noble Percy lie.
Be it my wrong you are from me exempt,
The region of my heart: be Kent unmannerly,
Didst hear her speak? is she shrill-tongued or low?
Bad news, by'r lady; seldom comes the better:
Sorrow breaks seasons and reposing hours,
He'll make your Paris Louvre shake for it,
Entomb'd upon the very hem o' the sea;
I told you, sir, they were red-hot with drinking;
Being, as it is, much spoke of.
butterfly: and when he caught it, he let it go
Widow, we will consider of your suit;
O, yet defend me, friends; I am but hurt.
May pierce the head of the great combatant
You and Fidele play the cooks: I'll stay
you: he beat me grievously, in the shape of a
Your rage mistakes us.
Pray God he be not angry.
And yet I'll promise thee she shall be rich
And be false with them.
war, no taxation of homage: I hold the olive in my
Let me but bind it hard, within this hour
That I have longed long to re-deliver;
Of him that caused it.
hear my lord speak: pray ye, go; there's my key:
Then, joyfully, my noble Lord of Bedford,
Where should she be? How oddly thou repliest!
One whom the music of his own vain tongue
I tell you, 'tis incredible to believe
There is no more but so: say it is done,
As pledges of my fealty and love;
honest witnesses: If this be not that you look for,
A mile before his tent fall down, and knee
And my reliances on his fracted dates
spoil of the city until night: for with these borne
To be your regent in the realm of France.
All the whole army stood agazed on him:
now.
Which of you, if you were a prince's son,
And there it is in writing, fairly drawn.
A good wench; give it me.
So many courses of the sun enthroned,
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.
BISHOP
If any plague hang over us, 'tis he.
And, though we leave it with a root, thus hack'd,
To whisper and conspire against my youth?
Enter VIOLA, and Attendants
He kills the nurse
Be packing, therefore, thou that wast a knight:
They are return'd, my lord, and give it out
And marry her at Eton. Go send to Falstaff straight.
Cousin, I am too young to be your father,
They did so, to the amazement of mine eyes
O madam, yonder is heavy news within between two
draw a sword to kill himself; which the ladies
to marry me well; and not being well married, it
Which now we hold at much uncertainty.
indeed more than I took her for.
As frozen water to a starved snake.
What woman in the city do I name,
More fertile-fresh than all the field to see;
To entreat your majesty to visit him.
'Our heir-apparent is a king!
Puff'd his own brother:--and can he be angry?
Shake in and out the rivet: and at this sport
I speak my good lord cardinal to this point,
For every man with his affects is born,
Fate, show thy force: ourselves we do not owe;
belied a lady; thirdly, they have verified unjust
know how I speed.
Of happy holding her.
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like?
Approaching near these eyes, would drink my tears
She is thy very princess. Who is this?
the love of Beatrice.
To AEmilius
Good night, sir.
In her strong toil of grace.
Which he achieved by the minute, lost his favour.
And many miles, the princess bids you tell
I would I were a Roman; for I cannot,
Shalt break into corruption: thou shalt think,
Ch'ill pick your teeth, zir: come; no matter vor
I tell thee, fellow,
They'll say 'tis naught: others, to hear the city
Outswell the colic of puff'd Aquilon:
How the young whelp of Talbot's, raging-wood,
Be not thy tongue thy own shame's orator;
Where is your mother?'
ANTIPHOLUS
May drop upon his kingdom and devour
Juno and Ceres whisper seriously;
The rest will ne'er come in, if he be out
All Kent hath yielded; nothing there holds out
Come, Sir Andrew, there's no remedy; the gentleman
Is it your will Claudio shall die tomorrow?
Though Birnam wood be come to Dunsinane,
Thrive, give him over: must I take the cure upon me?
Although my last: no matter, since I feel
SCENE I. London. The Parliament-house.
enters the confines of a tavern claps me his sword
This tribute from us, we were free:
'Tis true; for you are over boots in love,
And I have found Demetrius like a jewel,
The abuse of distance; force a play:
A mother hourly coining plots, a wooer
thou keep!
This is as't should be. Let me see the county;
And 'twere the cheaper way:
and bitumed ready.
Possess the people in Messina here
bondman? If any, speak; for him have I offended.
have brought you from Venice. Watch you to-night;
If you will patiently dance in our round
follows not thee: therefore thou art a sheep.
Save our deposed bodies to the ground?
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet:
Decius, well urged: I think it is not meet,
Alive, in triumph! and Mercutio slain!
Exit
And woo her with some spirit when she comes.
Alack, for mercy!
That they'll take no offence at our abuse.
away, away! if you will measure your lubber's
I'll to thy closet; and go read with thee
Room for the incensed Worthies!
And show us to be watchers. Be not lost
and hose. I'll go hide me.
Curtsy, sweet hearts; and so the measure ends.
An easy task it is to win our own.
Thou must restore.
To ORLANDO
Wert thou not beggar. Willing misery
Caesar can hide the sun from us with a blanket, or
To wish it back on you: fare you well Jessica.
Let in the maid, that out a maid
HECATE retires
On meddling monkey, or on busy ape,
Therefore, to arms! And, father, do but think
Strong and fasten'd villain
the insinuating nod and be off to them most
knowing what hath passed between you and Claudio.
Sir Robert Brakenbury, and Sir William Brandon.
What was thy mother's name? tell me but that,
Now, as I can remember, by my troth,
At a superfluous rate!
Camest thou from where they made the stand?
Go, bring them in: and take your places, ladies.
Come hither, ere my tree hath felt the axe,
So awake when I am gone;
With dreadful pomp of stout invasion!
Retire thee; go where thou art billeted:
have lost?
Cowards father cowards and base things sire base:
content to say it was for his country he did it to
Then have I kept it to a worthy end.
The daring'st counsel which I had to doubt;
How now, cousin Hero!
Tell me, I beseech you, which is the readiest way
Excellently done, if God did all.
There is no music in the nightingale;
Chirrah!
Shall see thee wither'd, bloody, pale and dead.
Art thou Revenge? and art thou sent to me,
ne'er the wiser.
His confession is taken, and it shall be read to his
High dukes, great princes, barons, lords and knights,
I learn'd in Worcester, as I rode along,
planted his honours in their eyes, and his actions
His honesty rewards him in itself;
Exit
secrets, but you must be tittle-tattling before all
So much of bad already hath possess'd them.
That thou hast proved Lucilius' saying true.
To conjure tears up in a poor maid's eyes
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Like one I loved indeed. What were thy friends?
Of Hymen's purest bed! thou valiant Mars!
You are like to do such business.
That do renown this city.
Come, let's away. My love, give me thy lips.
Shall play the umpire, arbitrating that
To this unlook'd for, unprepared pomp.
This is Trebonius.
Not he: but yet heaven's bounty towards him might
what they say of him.
The precious image of our dear Redeemer,
Fair fall the face it covers!
Meanwhile I am possess'd of that is mine.
Chanting faint hymns to the cold fruitless moon.
So I will, sir.
If that it be the work of any hand!
That you are fool'd, discarded and shook off
rareness, as, to make true diction of him, his
I have confess'd her and I know her virtue.
Is wise and virtuous, and his noble queen
Speak this no more.
To be entangled with those mouth-made vows,
Is it a custom?
I never sued to friend nor enemy;
Not what you have reserved, nor what acknowledged,
Now, Edmund, where's the villain?
Alarum. Enter YORK, EDWARD, RICHARD, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, WARWICK, and Soldiers
You must lay down the treasures of your body
Our army's in the field
That could give more, but that her hand lacks means.
Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
Worthy to be a rebel, for to that
Therefore let Benedick, like cover'd fire,
His beard was as white as snow,
I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your
And so I wish'd thy body might my heart:
Katharine his daughter, and with her, to dowry,
Well, I may chance to see you; for I would very fain
To purge this field of such a hilding foe,
If there be any impediment, I pray you discover it.
And bear her women from the monument:
As now our flesh is banish'd from this land:
On pure heart's love to greet the tender princes.
Haply the seas and countries different
Spoke, with how manifold and strong a bond
But I con him no thanks for't, in the nature he
he hath killed, otherwise he had suffered for't.
Until the golden circuit on my head,
And I this.
To death or to dishonour; and my end
the sun of England prove a thief and take purses? a
Sad, lady! I could be sad: this does make some
I, measuring his affections by my own,
Or how haps it I seek not to advance
That you are worth your breeding; which I doubt not;
Comparisons are odorous: palabras, neighbour Verges.
Shall be my precedent; as thou got'st Milan,
Remove your thought; it doth abuse your bosom.
O knight thou lackest a cup of canary: when did I
Should have shook lions into civil streets,
And curtain'd with a counsel-keeping cave,
Why he, of all the rest, hath never moved me.
And not impute this yielding to light love,
Charles, and the rest, it is enacted thus:
[Aside]  How! the king gone!
She never reprehended him but mildly,
O, let me kiss that hand!
O Kate, nice customs curtsy to great kings. Dear
press-money. That fellow handles his bow like a
Till he disbursed at Saint Colme's inch
You are pardon'd, Isabel:
Exit LUCIUS
'Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine:
Who, stuck and spangled with your flatteries,
yet who picked my pocket?
How many worthy princes' bloods were shed,
Or who hath brought the fatal engine in
So, when this loose behavior I throw off
I am slain by a fair cruel maid.
Sooner than quittance of desert and merit
well: a man may draw his heart out, ere a' pluck
My lord,--
Well praised! How if she be black and witty?
Tybalt, here slain, whom Romeo's hand did slay;
To-morrow all for speeding do their best.
Ay, my good lord, and she accepts of it.
the honest men and hang up them.
spin for her living.
Ay, ay. thou wouldst be gone to join with Richmond:
Upon this warrant shall you have access
Whiles you chid me, I did love;
They cut thy sister's tongue and ravish'd her
Which breathed this poison.
Caesarion, whom they call my father's son,
must serve me to feed on.
The ivy which had hid my princely trunk,
truly in my youth I suffered much extremity for
No, marry; I fear thee!
Cambio!
valiant, I honour him: but, as he was ambitious, I
Peace then! no words.
I dare not say, from the rich cardinal
'For,' quoth the king, 'an angel shalt thou see;
Assist, good friends.
Not me begotten of a shepherd swain,
Like labour with the rest, where the other instruments
whom I am now in ward, evermore in subjection.
malice, that, giving itself the lie, would pluck
I have it not about me.
You told a lie, an odious, damned lie;
The least a death to nature.
A thousand pound, Ha! a million: thy love is worth
More a little, and then dumb.
Despised the Athenian maid;
My fortunes every way as fairly rank'd,
the danger is in standing to't; that's the loss of
The steps of wrong, should move you to mew up
scene that I would see, which will be merely a
Of thy adverse pernicious enemy:
Who, all enraged, will banish Valentine;
Ay, but, I fear me, in another sense.
To fail in the disposing of those chances
throat cut like a calf.
Lest, being suffer'd in that harmful slumber,
What Antony shall speak, I will protest
Carry me to the gaol!
You have put me out of countenance.
Why, how know you that I am in love?
And there the strawy Greeks, ripe for his edge,
And that it should lie with you in your grave:
What, weeping-ripe, my Lord Northumberland?
The hope of comfort. But for thee, fellow,
she's a changeling and none of your flesh and blood.
I am of your fear for that.
It shall to the barber's, with your beard. Prithee,
Which is the least?
I will no more enforce mine office on you.
I never saw a vessel of like sorrow,
Save I alone, till Antony have spoke.
An if I live until I be a man,
It were a fault to snatch words from my tongue.
you, to your rights:
they say I will bear myself proudly, if I perceive
My actions are as noble as my thoughts,
No, madam.
If they have overheard me now, why, hanging.
To spread his colours, boy, in thy behalf,
From John of Gaunt doth bring his pedigree,
Enter PROTEUS
Against him first: he's a very dog to the commonalty.
Thus strangers may be hailed and abused: O
In earnestness to see him: seld-shown flamens
A hand as fruitful as the land that feeds us;
it, there is not one so young and so villanous this
Nominativo, hig, hag, hog; pray you, mark:
I'll fetch you one.
And proofs as clear as founts in July when
No, truly; for the truest poetry is the most
O happy man! they have befriended thee.
[Reads]  'Item, It is further agreed between them,
Enter two Gentlemen, meeting one another
Away; disperse: but till 'tis one o'clock,
Resembling majesty, which, being touch'd and tried,
yet his brother is reputed one of the best that is:
I never yet was valiant: for this business,
For this great journey. What did this vanity
For that her reputation was disvalued
How fares our cousin, noble Lord of York?
altogether governed by humours. Lie still, ye thief,
Subdues all pangs, all fears.
Keep your word, Silvius, that you'll marry her.
Ere one can say 'It lightens.' Sweet, good night!
Whom I do love and will do till my death.
break my shins against it.
And it is still itself.
I flamed amazement: sometime I'ld divide,
will, for his honour's sake, have one bout with you;
He comes too short of that great property
And trust not simple Henry nor his oaths.
But how did you desire it should be made?
And how she's like to be Lucentio's wife.
Ay, master.
Out of your proof you speak: we, poor unfledged,
Bring it after me.
A child that guided dotards; to his mistress,
Swill'd with the wild and wasteful ocean.
Fill all thy bones with aches, make thee roar
What proof shall I make of that?
A velvet dish: fie, fie! 'tis lewd and filthy:
SCENE I. Salisbury. An open place.
Go bear him hence. Sister, go you with me.
I would prolong awhile the traitor's life.
And so farewell: I would not have my father
Sun, hide thy beams! Timon hath done his reign.
That any thing he sees, which moves his liking,
sufferance.
Commit me for committing honour, trust it,
O my liege,
Thus in a chapel lying! Come off, come off:
Turn back, dull earth, and find thy centre out.
Then give me leave, for losers will have leave
Most kind messenger,
Paris, Guysors, Poictiers, are all quite lost.
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Exterior form, outward accoutrement,
Is crept into the bosom of the sea;
Is it possible he should know what he is, and be
something in't that stings his nature; for on the
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON
hope to see a housewife take thee between her legs
And to be doubted that your Moor and you
The one as long as the other: 'tis pity of him.
So Judas did to Christ: but he, in twelve,
Sometimes intrude not? who has a breast so pure,
'Redime te captum quam queas minimo.'
SCENE III. Friar Laurence's cell.
Nym, thou hast spoke the right;
I would I had any drum of the enemy's: I would swear
Which was embounded in this beauteous clay,
And either we or they must lower lie.
Ay, but not mine own desire.
Set in a note-book, learn'd, and conn'd by rote,
us to have mercy on him: at which time we will
Than the soft myrtle: but man, proud man,
Now, for I know the Breton Richmond aims
That deep and dreadful organ-pipe, pronounced
That took the Phoenix and her fraught from Candy;
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
Here, my lord.
That moved pale Cassius to conspire; and what
Will watch thy waking, and that very night
How sure you are my daughter. But, what music?
Wailing our losses, whiles the foe doth rage;
'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,
Good now, some excellent fortune! Let me be married
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
forked animal as thou art. Off, off, you lendings!
No, my good lord: myself, he and my sister
Is all of her; say that thou overheard'st us;
was in that credit with them at that time that I
monarch? I should venture purgatory for't.
Enter ALBANY
deceived even your very eyes: what your wisdoms
Over the wretched? What though you have no beauty,--
Tybalt, you rat-catcher, will you walk?
So would not I, for your own sake; for I have many
Truly to speak, and with no addition,
draught above heat makes him a fool; the second mads
Why, how now, cousin! wherefore sink you down?
How have you slept, my lord?
prithee, be gone.
Almost the sum he pays.
If it were chain'd together, and therefore came not.
malice in my breath. Meeting two such wealsmen as
Her eyes myself, could win me to believe,
Then call we this the field of Agincourt,
Exit Provost
And good even to you, sir.
Exeunt MARK ANTONY and EUPHRONIUS
of man's disposition is able to bear.
capon and eat it? wherein cunning, but in craft?
Walk half an hour, Leonine, at the least:
Sennet. Enter KING RICHARD III, in pomp, crowned; BUCKINGHAM, CATESBY, a page, and others
I do dismiss you to your several countries.
Aside
Exit Guardsman
Enter a Messenger
Not so, neither: but if I had wit enough to get out
Cerberus is at Proserpine's beauty, ay, that thou
That you do see? could thought, without this object,
Shall be my surety; 'fore whose throne 'tis needful,
Yes, and his ill conditions; and, in despite of
And live to be the show and gaze o' the time:
Ophelia, walk you here. Gracious, so please you,
There tell the king he may inquire us out.
To do myself this wrong: till, at the last,
Look here, and at thy sovereign leisure read
Now she is there, how will she specify
You know the wager?
But she did scorn a present that I sent her.
Does my deeds make the blacker!
This day was view'd in open as his queen,
Would testify, to enrich mine inventory.
Let us do so: for we are at the stake,
Nobly he yokes
Some wine, ho!
Upon his Irish expedition;
Would I were sleep and peace, so sweet to rest!
Needs must I like it well: I weep for joy
It is the bloody business which informs
How say you, madam, are ye so content?
By my troth, a pleasant-spirited lady.
Fie, how my bones ache! what a jaunt have I had!
SCENE II. Another part of the island.
Within my tent his bones to-night shall lie,
Wallon and Picardy are friends to us,
That Suffolk should demand a whole fifteenth
If not, I'll leave him to the officer.
less. What's next?
undergo those employments wherein I should have
Bring this apparel to my chamber; that is the second
And yet it cannot overtake your slow purse.
And curse that justice did it.
I'll have my bond; speak not against my bond:
Seven earls, twelve barons and twenty reverend bishops,
Be it as you shall privately determine,
The unguarded Duncan? what not put upon
Wash the congealment from your wounds, and kiss
But now it is impossible we should:
And a true lover of the holy church.
Who now reprovest me for it,--
We have willing dames enough: there cannot be
very good friends. What a frosty-spirited rogue is
crowned with your enjoying her. Adieu. You shall
While it doth study to have what it would
Such hope have all the line of John of Gaunt!
And got a calf in that same noble feat
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
Pardon him, sweet Timandra; for his wits
In every borough as we pass along;
And so she shall; Lucentio shall make one,
Dead.
In brief,--for so the season bids us be,--
Where's Antony?
In reckoning up the several devils' names
I know the hand: in faith, 'tis a fair hand;
Farewell till then.
will mow all down before him, and leave his passage polled.
Till hasty Polydote return, and bring him
Periods his comfort.
But for my sport and profit. I hate the Moor:
Good sir, have patience.
SCENE V. A room in the Garter Inn.
Sings
With Demetrius.
Speak low, if you speak love.
Thanks, gentle sir.
They fight; TYBALT falls
New hatch'd to the woeful time: the obscure bird
And to be a soldier?
Welcome, my lord	what is the news?
I sheathe again undeeded. There thou shouldst be;
[To PAGE]  Will you go with us to behold it? My
Our town of Cicester in Gloucestershire;
ought him a thousand pound.
As false as dicers' oaths: O, such a deed
Hautboys play. The dumb-show enters
But let her live.
Good Murder, stab him; he's a murderer.
Excuse me so, coming too short of thanks
How I have ever loved the life removed
thousand watches.
And, if one arm's embracement will content thee,
It comes upon me. Art thou any thing?
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
There is a lady in Verona here
singleness.
Give us some gold, good Timon: hast thou more?
To ease your country of distressful war,
Then he is dead?
These sorrowful drops upon thy blood-stain'd face,
Enter PISTOL
Good morrow, good my lord.
He bade me store up, as a triple eye,
Is my apparel sumptuous to behold?
Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels
The crying babe controll'd with this discourse:
It could not slake mine ire, nor ease my heart.
hath done a miracle; and would ye not think his
SCENE I. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Alarums: excursions. Enter THERSITES
loose any longer; you must be pinioned.
For good Polonius' death; and we have done but greenly,
Farewell, and take her; but direct thy feet
this Jew my master. The fiend is at mine elbow and
sure to be ransomed, and a many poor men's lives saved.
I marvel Cambio comes not all this while.
Therefore we'll knock.
That, like a rude and savage man of Inde,
What man art thou that thus bescreen'd in night
O, do not swear, my lord of Buckingham.
The due of honour in no point omit.
Or if of grief, being altogether had,
Villain, thou know'st the law of arms is such
That triumph thus upon my misery!
Who with mine eyes, never since at ebb, beheld
Enter English Herald, with trumpet
Which, for they yet glance by and scarcely bruise,
Why, our battalion trebles that account:
Assist me, then, sweet Warwick, and I will;
Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense,
tricks upon's with savages and men of Ind, ha? I
And make my seated heart knock at my ribs,
Sir Thomas Erpingham, Sir John Ramston,
Say you?
I left no reverend person in this court;
though I must be content to bear with those that say
Enter TROILUS armed, and PANDARUS
Enter OLIVIA with MALVOLIO
The kings o' the earth for war; he hath assembled
No; that it is too little.
Day, night, hour, tide, time, work, play,
There is a fat friend at your master's house,
Not bear the knife myself. Besides, this Duncan
Hours, minutes? noon, midnight? and all eyes
Brave me upon the watch; whereon it came
And rear it in the place your father's stands.
Methinks his words do from such passion fly,
War! war! no peace! peace is to me a war
Prithee, go in thyself: seek thine own ease:
And give't Iago: what he will do with it
An if it do, take it for thy labour; and if it make
May, even in their wives' and children's sight,
Lands, goods, horse, armour, any thing I have,
Trumpet within
In his descent than shall my prompted sword
As shall become your highness; where you may
Which to deny concerns more than avails; for as
Intended 'gainst Lord Angelo, came I hither,
So clear in his great office, that his virtues
What is Pyramus? a lover, or a tyrant?
You, to remove that siege of grief from her,
Hath full relation to the penalty,
To jump a body with a dangerous physic
That I shall blush in acting, and might well
Once touch my shoulder. Great the slaughter is
And, with these boys, mine honour thou hast wounded:
bald; a fair face will wither; a full eye will wax
to Lord Lucullus you: I hunted with his honour
Forgive a moiety of the principal;
Then thieves and robbers range abroad unseen
The other eye of Gloucester.
cause, and be silent, that you may hear: believe me
I thank my liege, that in regard of me
I must needs wake you; Lady! lady! lady!
But that I think his father loves him not
Is Beaufort term'd a kite? Where are his talons?
Shall I deny you? no: farewell, my lord.
In saying so, you shall but say the truth.
A cloak as long as thine will serve the turn?
Outside or inside, I will not return
It cannot be but he was murder'd here;
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
Into the chantry by: there, before him,
men and gives them suits of durance; he that sets up
To conquer France, his true inheritance?
Give it an understanding, but no tongue:
God comfort him in this necessity!
To meet me at the consecrated fount
As I can say nay to thee for myself,
But we will ship him hence: and this vile deed
We have led since thy exile. Think with thyself
a ship of rich lading wrecked on the narrow seas;
Is dearest to me. I have no skill in sense
Like a bright exhalation m the evening,
He cannot live, I hope; and must not die
Hew them to pieces, hack their bones asunder
O, no doubt, my good friends, but the gods
She's beautiful, and therefore to be woo'd;
Why, what is it, my lord?
As it disanimates his enemies.
ANTIPHOLUS
Will this content you, Kate?
His remedies are tame i' the present peace
Lend thine ear.
There, where we see the lights.
Which here we came to spout against your town,
Upon the next occasion that we meet,
The pale moon shines by night:
Reads
That shall enmesh them all.
O, a pit of clay for to be made
On Thursday, sir? the time is very short.
the luggage of our camp: the French might have a
[Aside]  My tears begin to take his part so much,
I cannot, lord; I have important business,
That ever Timon was. Shame not these woods,
I may have liberty to venge this wrong;
How now! is Somerset at liberty?
My lord?
many of the rich are damned: but, if I may have
Both merits poised, each weighs nor less nor more;
Nor now my scandal, Richard, dost thou hear;
What a fool is she, that knows I am a maid,
Marcus, my brother! 'tis sad Titus calls.
their damnation than he was before guilty of those
A good digestion to you all: and once more
For many so arrive at second masters,
No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with
Enter PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, HORTENSIO, and Servants
Our care and pity is so much upon you,
[Speaking together]  How now!
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
This is that face, thou cruel Angelo,
Sometimes we see a cloud that's dragonish;
That have my heart parted betwixt two friends
Is she become the suitor?
Only reserved, you claim no interest
With the plebeians swarming at their heels,
villanous speeches of the duke.
Too late he died that might have kept that title,
Well, I had rather than twice the worth of her she
In thy opinion which is worthiest love?
Virtue with valour couched in thine eye.
The owl shriek'd at thy birth,--an evil sign;
his displeasure; which at this instant so rageth
Bear me to prison, where I am committed.
Yet nature might have made me as these are,
In their embracement, as they grew together;
He makes sweet music with the enamell'ed stones,
Talbot, farewell; thy hour is not yet come:
'Tis no sinister nor no awkward claim,
For you'll prove perjured if you make me stay.
Plain and not honest is too harsh a style.
one that takes upon him to be a dog indeed, to be,
Exit
What means this shouting? I do fear, the people
see a toad, a very toad, as see him. I anger her
The ooze, to show what coast thy sluggish crare
And come to us as favourers, not as foes.
I am not merry; but I do beguile
In haste whereof, most heartily I pray
Is more than one,
What a haste looks through his eyes! So should he look
Nay, let's seek him:
Alack,
The people know it; and have now received
Nature this dowry gave, to glad her presence,
Live, noble Helicane!
I will be good to thee.
The city ports by this hath enter'd and
Enter KING LEAR, KENT, and Fool
O peace, Prince Dauphin!
Within these two months, that's a month before
Find pardon on my true submission.
Exit Clown
Exit
fellow partner.
And then take hands:
Of the unguarded hearts, heavens, how they wound!
When thou art Timon's dog, and these knaves honest.
Ascend her chamber, hence and comfort her:
He's shrewdly vexed at something: look, he has spied us.
Of health and living now begins to mend,
O that you could!
Is this the man? Is't you, sir, that know things?
So beggars marry many.
Come on.
hearkened to their father's testament. There was a
And that you look'd for him this day in Padua.
As goddess-like to her admired lays;
To shallow  and c.
Amen!
Draw; seem to defend yourself; now quit you well.
From our companion thrown into his grave,
ACT II
'Tis all my business. At our last encounter,
You have made me offer
Would Desdemona seriously incline:
Began to water. Is thy master coming?
Till our King Henry had shook hands with death.
But 'twas ere I was born.
workman, a very good tailor.
I would not shave't to-day.
I will chide no breather in the world but myself,
Was to be gone from Athens, where we might,
Alencon! that notorious Machiavel!
Unshaked of motion: and that I am he,
Why then 'tis mine, if but by Warwick's gift.
Me seemeth good, that, with some little train,
Music and a song within: 'Come away, come away,'  and c
But if to that my nature need a spur,
Believe it better than reportingly.
Have their free voices: Rome, the nurse of judgment,
Dost thou, or dost thou not, heaven's curse
A meacock wretch can make the curstest shrew.
Their eyes o'ergalled with recourse of tears;
Think'st thou to catch my life so pleasantly
Come, your reason, Jack, your reason.
Came to the altar; where she kneel'd, and saint-like
Belief of it oppresses me already.
Commend my best obedience to the queen:
A parlous boy: go to, you are too shrewd.
inventory to particularise their abundance; our
He swung about his head and cut the winds,
O, for two special reasons;
No, monster, not I.
My fortunes and my friends at stake required
Yorkshire.
Petruchio, I shall be your ben venuto.
Even in the jaws of danger and of death.
And next his throat unto the butcher's knife.
O king, believe not this hard-hearted man!
'Tis old, but true, Still swine eat all the draff.
Concolinel.
But what we do determine oft we break.
A distance from her; while her grace sat down
A greater gift than that I'll give my cousin.
I think, by this he is.
And that I have possess'd him my most stay
I am a stranger here in Gloucestershire:
And I'll provide his executioner,
'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou
l'envoy, no l'envoy; no salve, sir, but a plantain!
He fell down in the market-place, and foamed at
Grown fear'd and tedious; yea, my gravity,
SCENE I. Venice. A street.
Ghost
For idleness itself.
And add more coals to Cancer when he burns
Many dream not to find, neither deserve,
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
I have retired me to a wasteful cock,
On your suggestion.
A man whom both the waters and the wind,
She's going away.
When have I aught exacted at your hands,
Methinks there is much reason in his sayings.
Not he; the queen.
My gentleman, Cesario?
That it in golden letters should be set
We might have met them dareful, beard to beard,
Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind;
worm's an odd worm.
Upon thy certainty and confidence
an ox, were nothing; he is both ox and ass. To be a
What say you to a neat's foot?
intelligence hath seldom failed.
Tut, tut, thou art all ice, thy kindness freezeth:
When Proteus cannot love where he's beloved.
But nothing spake in warrant from himself.
What, in metre?
Come, thou monarch of the vine,
Make them best seen and known.
Shall sweet Bianca practise how to bride it?
To fair Bianca, so beloved of me.
I do beseech you,
Alack, poor gentleman!
The form of death: meantime I writ to Romeo,
You will not do't for all the world, I hope.
none; why, none: a slipper and subtle knave, a
perfect image of life indeed. The better part of
Now, ye familiar spirits, that are cull'd
I am beloved of beauteous Hermia:
But never doubt I love.
By the mass, lad, thou sayest true; it is like we
If you respect them, best to take them up.
And stops he now for breath?
Tu-who, a merry note,
Right; so I say.
Of such a merry, nimble, stirring spirit,
Inhabits here: some heavenly power guide us
with him! better shame than murder.
Whose glory fills the world with loud report.
And falsehood falsehood cures, as fire cools fire
Higher than both in blood and life, stands up
Lamenting some enforced chastity.
Till twice five summers have enrich'd our fields
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
To have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
Which, howsoever rude exteriorly,
Therefore--
Sing, boy; my spirit grows heavy in love.
Philip, good old sir Robert's wife's eldest son.
Sometime a keeper here in Windsor forest,
Stay, father! for that noble hand of thine,
Of every hearer: for it so falls out
Here comes a messenger. What news?
Wife, go you to her ere you go to bed;
And send to darkness all that stop me. Come,
friends no wrong, for I have none to lament me, the
Ten masts at each make not the altitude
chain or no.
That sunder'd friends greet in the hour of death.
Ay, I think my cousin meant well.
Good morrow, masters: each his several way.
Therefore, for goodness' sake, and as you are known
Even of the bonny beast he loved so well.
Above the morning lark or wilt thou hunt?
Why, here he comes, swelling like a turkey-cock.
You shall be welcome, madam, to my court.
broke open my lodge.
I have forgot my part, and I am out,
graces: confess yourself freely to her; importune
And then the whining school-boy, with his satchel
sometimes and tell her that Paris is the properer
and thus the whirligig of time brings in his revenges.
He approaches: you shall hear him.
Make your proof.
Wiped the black scruples, reconciled my thoughts
The custom of request you have discharged:
I never saw but Humphrey Duke of Gloucester
O me unhappy!
Enter ANNE and an Old Lady
RICHARD
Our Rome will cast upon thee.
I have myself resolved upon a course
Come unto these yellow sands,
Our worser thoughts heavens mend! Alexas,--come,
And so am come abroad to see the world.
In piteous chase; and thus the hairy fool
fitted for 't.
To Germany, there with the emperor
know my business is but to the court.
Have studied physic, through which secret art,
Even in a minute: so full of shapes is fancy
The newest state.
The presenters above speak
What noise is this? Give me my long sword, ho!
And may not wear them. O, here comes my nurse,
To speak my mind, and I will through and through
He went hence even now.
We will be revenged.
Neither, my lord.
SCENE II. Orleans. Within the town.
The emperor calls Canidius.
Except she bend her humour, shall be assured
I do beseech your majesty may salve
Exeunt PISTOL, and French Soldier
What's this for?
of mine: how worthy he is I will leave to appear
Caesar's ambition,
For him, I think not on him: for his thoughts,
The best I can, my lord.
Well aim'd of such a young one.
When the rich blood of kings is set on fire!
Bereft and gelded of his patrimony.
Exeunt all but YORK
In this the madman justly chargeth them.
So, by being too curst, God will send you no horns.
Malice domestic, foreign levy, nothing,
rest of the herd to me that all their other senses
And cross-gartered?
But angry, wrathful, and inclined to blood,
So proudly as if he disdain'd the ground.
Accompany your hearts!
SCENE V. Juliet's chamber.
Prince Troilus, I have loved you night and day
Ere he attain his easeful western bed:
Nay, good my lord,--
To put apart these your attendants, I
Good night; and better health
Golden opinions from all sorts of people,
Attach thee as a traitorous innovator,
Before this friar and swear to marry her.
Is, I know how to curse. The red plague rid you
O, get thee from my sight;
Do so, good mine host.
Before you venture for me. I could teach you
To kill the king at Oxford.
prove you a fool.
You patience to endure, and true repentance
How's this? how's this? Some more; be sage.
Enter LUCIUS
And have forsworn you with Hortensio.
If you'll stand fast, we'll beat them to their wives,
Why, my boy?
Sith priest and holy water are so near
would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
could behold the sun with as firm eyes as he.
Of an unbounded stomach, ever ranking
No.
Whom their o'er-cloyed country vomits forth
Have made you finish.
I dare lay any money 'twill be nothing yet.
That Christendom shall ever speak his virtue.
What says Achilles? would he aught with us?
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury,
In personal action, yet prodigious grown
sound retreat or parley, when I command them kill?
There is no shuffling, there the action lies
Have sent a dozen sequent messengers
Of what hath moved you.
And if you crown him, let me prophesy:
But that between us we can kill a fly
What find I here?
What I should think of this, I cannot tell:
So strange, outrageous, and so variable,
O, what authority and show of truth
a three-piled piece, I warrant thee: I had as lief
We, at the height, are ready to decline.
Now, by the holy mother of our Lord,
Love, therefore, and tongue-tied simplicity
By you unhappied and disfigured clean:
A thievish living on the common road?
Should make a start o'er seas and vanquish you?
A weight of carrion flesh than to receive
The deputy elected by the Lord:
Not a mouse stirring.
No, good my lord; let's fight with gentle words
I am so far from granting thy request
And by and by I will to thee appear.
Et bonum quo antiquius, eo melius.
Cold biting winter mars our hoped-for hay.
And this, and this, the greatest discords be
customers. First, here's young Master Rash; he's in
Is all unpossible.
The thoughts of others! Pray you, tell me this;
Ten thousand soldiers with me I will take,
And let it answer every strain for strain,
If you had sent but two hours before,--
Traitors!
Will follow mine, if once they see them spread;
A document in madness, thoughts and remembrance fitted.
This king to Tarsus,--think his pilot thought;
Let him be ransom'd: never master had
For we to-morrow hold divided councils,
For briers and thorns at their apparel snatch;
Upon the parting of your wives and you.
Which is the greatest lady, the highest?
Seeing his dead father
Five or six thousand; but very weak and
SCENE I. PETRUCHIO'S country house.
But to our honour's great disparagement,
So it be new, there's no respect how vile--
Left on your right hand brings you to the place.
Striking him
Now, where's my wife?
Strength should be lord of imbecility,
The next thing then she waking looks upon,
Would you expect? you are strangely troublesome.
Lend me a garter. So. O, for a chair,
Profaners of this neighbour-stained steel,--
Hillo, ho, ho, boy! come, bird, come.
You cannot beg us, sir, I can assure you, sir we know
Why, what means this? Why do you look on me?
call them--that many wearing rapiers are afraid of
I am my father's heir and only son:
Together with that fair and warlike form
I'll bear thee hence, where I may weep my fill.
I, that am honest; I, that hold it sin
As you malign our senators for that
upon thee. Come, bring me to some private place:
Love give me strength! and strength shall help afford.
had been swelled! I should have been a mountain of mummy.
young earl. Beware of them, Diana; their promises,
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
I am a very villain else.
As in offence.
madness; which was, to forswear the full stream of
By history, report, or his own proof,
'	Then, howso'er thou speak'st, 'mong other things
Which if we should deny, the most just gods
The glory of our Troy doth this day lie
constant men be Troiluses, all false women Cressids,
Coming forward
Saw I him touch'd with anger so distemper'd.
Than wots the miller of; and easy it is
and one Mordake, and a thousand blue-caps more:
Ay, in the temple, in the town, the field,
And the particular accidents gone by
The horn, the horn, the lusty horn
To win our daughter.
They fight
harpy. You have no employment for me?
More particulars
Aside
To let him there a month behind the gest
Over his country's wrongs; and by this face,
Exeunt
Makes me most forward in this noble presence
I will presently go learn their day of marriage.
Until the goose came out of door,
When I was wont to think no harm all night
That doth not wish you joy!
If 'twill tie up thy discontented sword,
Thou sayest true: 'tis not our bringing up of poor
She is beholding to thee, gentle youth.
to any gentlewoman, and very weak dealing.
Enough to fetch him in. See it done:
have loved thyself better now. What man didst thou
For mocking marriage with a dame of France.
he cannot, let the botcher mend him. Any thing
Unlike young men, whom Aristotle thought
What, art thou mad?
Ah, uncle Humphrey! in thy face I see
According to the measure of their states.
Are but as pictures: 'tis the eye of childhood
So, now the gates are ope: now prove good seconds:
Mark Antony shall not love Caesar dead
I will have such revenges on you both,
And let him ply his music.
And all good men, as every prince should do;
That we could hear no news of his repair?
His hour of speech a minute; he, my lady,
And yet 'not proud,' mistress minion, you,
He made you for a highway to my bed;
So bad a death argues a monstrous life.
SCENE I. A lane by the wall of Capulet's orchard.
like you, sir?
I am for the air; this night I'll spend
Believe't, till I wept too.
Be bold you do so grow in my requital
The part my father meant to act upon
Or, if thou wilt not, be but sworn my love,
Exeunt Gaolers
SCENE IV. The Shepherd's cottage.
Where is he living, clipp'd in with the sea
The rest do nothing--with this word 'Stand, stand,'
Keep the peace, I say.
Thy meekness saint-like, wife-like government,
With such integrity, she did confess
Nor age so eat up my invention,
If thou wilt curse, thy father, that poor rag,
Then, world, thou hast a pair of chaps, no more;
My physic says 'ay.'
Well, the gods give us joy!
Dies
Is man no more than this? Consider him well. Thou
As they smelt music: so I charm'd their ears
For every word: he is so kind that he now
That can we not; but he that proves the king,
No, pray thee.
not care; but to be Menelaus, I would conspire
So help me God, as I dissemble not!
When cowardice pursues and valour flies.
He hath done good service, lady, in these wars.
I have a daughter--have while she is mine--
I do hear the morning lark.
Look, how thou dream'st! I say again, give out
Then up he rose, and donn'd his clothes,
Falstaff will learn the humour of the age,
The sweetest sleep, and fairest-boding dreams
Shall I? O rare! By the Lord, I'll be a brave judge.
Murder, as hating what himself hath done,
new court?
An actor too, perhaps, if I see cause.
'Twas not my purpose, thus to beg a kiss:
That taught his son the office of a fowl!
Stabs him
'Slight, I could so beat the rogue!
I'll leave it by degrees. Soft, let us see:
the dukes; and a worse matter than that: I have
Exit
Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode;
Enter a Groom of the Stable
Thy wit is as quick as the greyhound's mouth; it catches.
Thou never hadst renown, nor canst not lose it.
There is no other way but to tell the king
noble Marcius.
How well resembles it the prime of youth,
Which I have here recover'd from the Moor:
How easy dost thou take all England up!
No more can I be sever'd from your side,
Pray, Master Barnardine, awake till you are
Give me thy poniard; you shall know, my boys
Ciel, cousin Orleans.
Enter the Ghost of King Henry VI
With edge of penny cord and vile reproach:
the jealous knave their master in the door, who
Wont, through a secret grate of iron bars
When they next wake, all this derision
a'leven-pence farthing better: most sweet gardon! I
Mumbling of wicked charms, conjuring the moon
Ay, every dram of woman's flesh is false, If she be.
SCENE III. The woods. Timon's cave, and a rude tomb seen.
Death! my lord,
A most inherent baseness.
Well, sir, what follows?
My lord, the queen would speak with you, and
Son, I'll be your half, Bianca comes.
protector,
Nay, I'll ne'er believe that; I have to show to the contrary.
Name Cressida and thy life shall be as safe
With all swift speed you must away to France.
In which predicament, I say, thou stand'st;
Doth play the trumpet to his purposes,
Were in six parts and every part a ducat,
not yet: the roof of this court is too high to be
the stile, this way.
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting,
Shall I so much dishonour my fair stars,
There ye shall meet about this weighty business.
Know, noble lord, they have devised a mean
'Tis some mischance; the cry is very direful.
Who sometime, in his better tune, remembers
Before we enter his forbidden gates,
Tears our recountments had most kindly bathed,
I have touch'd the highest point of all my greatness;
To the court of his eye, peeping thorough desire:
As you that thus abuse me.
Virtue is no horn-maker; and my Rosalind is virtuous.
With his most noble blood.
Nurse! What should she do here?
I saw Othello's visage in his mind,
the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
Have you the lion's part written? pray you, if it
Exit Gentleman
choice. Now, sir, this granted,--as it is a most
That hang'd and drawn and quartered, there should be
Is he disposed to mirth? I hope he is.
Great lords, wise men ne'er sit and wail their loss,
Who hath he left behind him general?
I'll trust, by leisure, him that mocks me once;
What I can show in this.
thousands in a trice: you have no true debitor and
Vere is mine host de Jarteer?
See what a rent the envious Casca made:
Of full three thousand ducats. What of that?
We were as twinn'd lambs that did frisk i' the sun,
But with a noble fury and fair spirit,
You see the poor remainder--could distribute,
What's he that hath so much thy place mistook
Why writes she so to me? Well, shepherd, well,
That is done too, sir; only 'cover' is the word.
I am, and by my fancy: if my reason
any such sort, as they say, but in the way of
I'll leave her houses three or four as good,
No planet is of mine.
Pray God, I say, I prove a needless coward!
What mean you, sir,
Who, I am sure, is kind and comfortable:
That, if King Lewis vouchsafe to furnish us
Here's a young lad framed of another leer:
In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts:
The midwife and the nurse well made away,
The treasure in this field achieved and city,
Twenty crowns.
He is, and feasts the nobles of the state
I hope, sir, you are; and I am yours.
He holds your temper in a high respect
Fly not; for shouldst thou take the river Styx,
Exeunt all but BEDFORD and Attendants
To do a murderous deed, to rob a man,
Nothing so much as mincing poetry:
Of disobedient opposition
Who stays it still withal?
Pleading for a lover's fee.
Yea, though thou do demand a prisoner,
Why, there's for thee, and there, and there. Are all
Though you would seek to unsphere the
To the descent and dust below thy foot,
have made to her chastity you shall answer me with
I have not long to trouble thee. Good Griffith,
But to win time
Well, well; as for him, he brought his disease
was a star danced, and under that was I born.
A stand where you may make the fairest shoot.
Cannot distaste the goodness of a quarrel
Run, Lucius, and commend me to my lord;
flesh, and cost me the dearest groans of a mother, I
would prove: my friends told me as much, and I
bettered expectation than you must expect of me to
Prithee, man, look cheerly. These old fellows
often give us soldiers the lie: but we pay them for
Hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece,
Yield, cur!
You moonshine revellers and shades of night,
Exeunt ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
Sojourn in Mantua; I'll find out your man,
Despair not, madam.
Would I not undergo for one calm look!
Plucking it off
Above the border of this horizon,
Come in, woman!
Argued betwixt the Duke of York and him;
Have aught committed that is hardly borne
Where is the county's page, that raised the watch?
If thou art dun, we'll draw thee from the mire
The passage and whole carriage of this action
Who calls?
And moe corrivals and dear men
Till noon! till night, my lord; and all night too.
Enter KING RICHARD II, JOHN OF GAUNT, with other Nobles and Attendants
Nor shall it, Harry; for the hour is come
[Aside]  How say you by that? Still harping on my
forest judge.
If there be any good thing to be done,
fear the worst oft cures the worse.
Why you have given me such clear lights of favour,
Sit you too.
No longer Earl of March, but Duke of York:
and yielding.
Whilst that Lavinia 'tween her stumps doth hold
would have none but knaves follow it, since a fool gives it.
And bid my will avouch it, yet I must not,
O thou that dost inhabit in my breast,
In countenance! Heaven shield your grace from woe,
These eyes, that see thee now well coloured,
O, if a virgin,
Which all this while had bled; and now he fainted
expecting thy reply, I profane my lips on thy foot,
Of divination in our sister work
Very well, sir; proceed.
And call him noble that was now your hate,
Must be fulfill'd, and I attend with patience.
To manage private and domestic quarrel,
had rather:' your husband's here at hand, bethink
To gather in some debts, my son Lucentio
Behold, there stand the caskets, noble prince:
too. Run up, Sir John.
I'll put in bail, my liege.
And we will both together to the Tower,
From whom this tyrant holds the due of birth
And he, repulsed--a short tale to make--
Yea, just so much as you may take upon a knife's
Benedicite!
you could go backward.
What's the matter with thee now?
And wilt thou learn of me?
Even in condition of the worst degree,
beard, your orange-tawny beard, your purple-in-grain
Stay, officer: he shall not go to prison.
That my Nerissa shall be sworn on is,
Exeunt
Pray thee, sweet Mistress Margaret, deserve well at
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and Servingmen
But when I swear, it is irrevocable.
For a worthy lady
And not so much to feed on as delight;
Still revelling like lords till all be gone;
This jewel holds his building on my arm:
The latest breath that gave the sound of words
Lie further off; in human modesty,
Now must I to the monument alone;
Indeed, that is out o' the air.
Ere this rude beast will profit.
The queen of earthly queens: she's noble born;
Peace, I say, Gallia and Gaul, French and Welsh,
Of double ducats, stolen from me by my daughter!
Not so, my lord; the gods of Rome forfend
With a bare bodkin? who would fardels bear,
Of its own fail, restraining aid to Timon;
And slept above some fifteen year or more.
His captain, steward, deputy-elect,
How has the ass broke the wall, that thou art out of the city?
Reads
And when you do them--
Is not nine.
Exit
And Cassio rules in Cyprus. For this slave,
And hire post-horses; I will hence to-night.
Weary se'nnights nine times nine
My lord, she may be a punk; for many of them are
He's traitor to the height.
Hither to London, to be crown'd our king.
Grandam, I will not wish thy fortunes thrive:
Which they will make an obedient father.
Exit IMOGEN, to the cave
despise one that is false, or as I despise one that
houses over your heads, ravish your wives and
By her I claim the kingdom: she was heir
Your weak condition to the raw cold morning.
Creatures may be alike: were 't he, I am sure
Yet, were there but this single plot to lose,
But for the end it works to. Come; our stomachs
Enter a Lord
Pulling clothes out of the basket
Nor can my tongue unload my heart's great burthen;
king's daughter is found: such a deal of wonder is
Ah, how much might the man deserve of me that would right her!
sight she uses thee kindly: but thou liest in thy
Then she hath sworn that she will still live chaste?
But when extremities speak. I have heard you say,
Re-enter Provost
Your strong possession much more than your right,
What case stand I in? I must be the poisoner
A gift that heaven gives for him, which buys
earth we make loam; and why of that loam, whereto he
Than that which dearest father bears his son,
Then, in the name of God and all these rights,
When, being not at your lodging to be found,
Their rotten privilege and custom 'gainst
Peace, you were best.
Ere he take ship for France, and in Southampton.
Alas, poor hurt fowl! now will he creep into sedges.
Here comes a member of the commonwealth.
They did, Fluellen.
And spleen of speed to see your majesty!
Of thy assault: if he shall think it fit,
And reap the harvest which that rascal sow'd;
That Suffolk doth not flatter, face, or feign.
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
That only Warwick's daughter shall be thine.
To be seduced by thy flattery,
In them I trust; for they are soldiers,
His wife is in Corioli and his child
Wherein our entertainment shall shame us we will be
He shall be satisfied; and, by my honour,
Warrants these words in princely courtesy.
Quite from the main opinion he held once
If not already.
ACT III
Well, if you were but an inch of fortune better than
niece your daughter and meant to acknowledge it
Which thou pour'st down from these swelling heavens
we'll to Sutton Co'fil' tonight.
The Lord Bassanio live an upright life;
day he wrestled?
Which will not prove a whip: as many coxcombs
No, I can better play the orator.
Did I let pass the abuse done to my niece?
Are with a most indissoluble tie
And set thy diadem upon my head;
And basely put it up without revenge?
Sings
But from this lady may proceed a gem
What with the injuries of a wanton time,
A dozen of them here have ta'en the sacrament,
I know not: but I am sure 'tis safer to
That knows no touch to tune the harmony:
Exit
O tremble, for you hear the lion roar.
I have told your lordship already, the stocks carry
Yet let me obtain my wish.
There is a mutiny in's mind. This morning
Between the pale complexion of true love
ACT III
Even from this instant, banish him our city,
pleading so well for his life. Away with him! he
Shall ever take alive the noble Brutus:
My lord, I do confess the ring was hers.
I will repeat them,--a, e, i,--
Peace to your highness!
That will betime, and may by us be fitted.
This lord go to him! Jupiter forbid,
They do disdain us much beyond our thoughts,
But immortality attends the former.
Great Media, Parthia, and Armenia.
Your loss is great, so your regard should be;
To gratulate thy plenteous bosom: th' ear,
Nay, an thou pass upon me, I'll no more with thee.
Dispatch, sweet gentlemen, and follow me.
the head, and three times was his nose discharged
Should be without regard: what's done is done.
I love him not, nor fear him; there's my creed:
Empties itself, as doth an inland brook
Heart-hardening spectacles; tell these sad women
Do so: to ebb
To breathe such vows as lovers use to swear;
And all my armour laid into my tent?
And how he cannot be a perfect man,
I said before, that which is the strength of their
In life's uncertain voyage, I will some kindness do them:
How does my bounteous sister? Go with me
No, boy, not so; I'll teach thee another course.
I care not.
SCENE V. Elsinore. A room in the castle.
She hath not given so many good words breath
Where shame doth harbour, even in Mowbray's face.
And, in some sort, these wants of mine are crown'd,
For hear her but exampled by herself:
Of six preceding ancestors, that gem,
Shall tender duty make me suffer wrong?
ANTIPHOLUS
Pale Hecate's offerings, and wither'd murder,
Cowardly knight! ill fortune follow thee!
To hear meekly, sir, and to laugh moderately; or to
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS
And in that very line, Harry, standest thou;
If I be one.
An idle lord. I swear.
I ask your voices and your suffrages:
To ease his breast with panting.
We shall not spend a large expense of time
Away, and for our flight.
Sway'd from the point, by looking down on Caesar.
By me?
Have skipp'd from sixteen years of age to sixty,
That thought abuses you.
Ransomless here we set our prisoners free:
And teach lavoltas high and swift corantos;
All exercise on thee; thou shalt be pinch'd
Madam, I was not old sir Robert's son:
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
And what of him, Tranio?
Some six months since, my lord.
dost thou converse with that trunk of humours, that
received from her another embassy of meeting; 'twixt
The Volsces dare break with us.
So, rushing in the bowels of the French,
Go, sirrah, find him out. Come, Valentine.
Alas, he is too young! yet he looks successfully.
betwixt us. Farewell, dear sister: farewell, my
Thus I mend it: Time himself is bald and therefore
As venom toads, or lizards' dreadful stings.
Stands in worse case of woe.
Aumerle that was;
Too hideous to be shown. Thou dost mean something:
Resolveth from his figure 'gainst the fire?
Soldiers, not thieves.
How foolish do your fears seem now, Calpurnia!
Thaliard, behold, here's poison, and here's gold;
Fell gently down, as if they struck their friends.
Exit with the child
In this point charge him home, that he affects
majesty is take out of the helmet of Alencon.
speak with you, and be acquainted with you; and hath
And poor in worth! Now shall we see to-morrow--
Born so, master.
And be no more an exhaled meteor,
Unto a ragged fearful-hanging rock
And kept asunder. You, madam, shall with us.
The devil it is that's thy master. Why dost thou
It is the stars,
all.
But all the story of the night told over,
Do you so, sir? And was the duke a fleshmonger, a
Let me have it;
Will never do him good, not one of you.
Well, stand aside. 'Fore God, they are both in a
I was not much afeard; for once or twice
They make in Italy; the borders maritime
To carve out dials quaintly, point by point,
Thou canst not, son; it is impossible.
not a soldier-like phrase: but I say, love me. By me,
And rise created princely Duke of York.
Why only, Suffolk, mourn I not for thee,
Enter CLEOPATRA led by CHARMIAN and IRAS; EROS following
We will not leave one lord, one gentleman:
Though fools at home condemn 'em.
Retire to win our purpose.
Throned and set high?--servants, who seem no less,
Go you, call hither my fool.
Let it not sound a thought upon your tongue
And thou, by that small hurt, hast cashier'd Cassio:
Spoke with the king and have procured his leave
I cannot tell; but this I am assured,
Let's hear our tribune: peace Speak, speak, speak.
They converse apart
That foul defacer of God's handiwork,
He is in Rome.
Than love that's hired! What, goest thou back? thou shalt
I am glad to see you.
He hearkens after prophecies and dreams;
A woman.
Our general doth salute you with a kiss.
Exeunt. Alarum, and chambers go off
ANTIPHOLUS
That late broke from the Duke of Exeter,
I have done nothing but in care of thee,
Why, this is an arrant counterfeit rascal; I
Drew sleep out of mine eyes, blood from my cheeks,
No, since.
I say, my daughter is my flesh and blood.
To fright them, ere destroy. But come in:
elder than this, who yet is no dearer in my account:
Ay, it stands so that I may hardly
make one. Though we are justices and doctors and
Why should I not, had I the heart to do it,
Advise yourself.
To bring a slovenly unhandsome corse
Coming from Sardis, on our former ensign
And your great flow of debts. My loved lord,
carry; therefore is she better than a jade. 'Item:
And nothing come in partial. Sir, he must die.
As if I had received them for the hire
The Nevils are thy subjects to command.
Upon this overweening traitor's foot,
you seem to be? Can you think to blow out the
But I will none of them; they are for you;
With the rich worth of your virginity.
indeed; but how honourable he is in that, I know not.
What wilt thou prove?
Ay, if Messala will prefer me to you.
shall after revive, be jointed to the old stock and
The motto thus, in Spanish, 'Piu por dulzura que por fuerza.'
And that which rather thou dost fear to do
I am fall'n indeed.
In second husband let me be accurst!
Impostors to true fear, would well become
Mistress Overdone.
Better it were they all came by the father,
Here will I stand till Caesar pass along,
And make a dearth in this revolting land.
Enter TIMON, from the cave
When they pass back from the christening.
affection: it is past the infinite of thought.
I would the gods had nothing else to do
Will you require in present dower with her,
Of my queen's travails!
Mine eyes are full of tears, my heart of grief.
Those things I bid you do, get them dispatch'd.
to go to bed now: come, knight; come, knight.
Go to; I'll make ye know your times of business:
at me? No, do thy worst, blind Cupid! I'll not
Stand, ho! yet are we masters of the field:
you speak best unto the purpose, it is not worth the
Thou shouldst desire to die, being miserable.
Re-enter GUIDERIUS
with Barnardine's head: I will give him a present
knowledge?
Why, 'tis a boisterous and a cruel style.
O heaven!
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
you your kindred had made my eyes water ere now. I
The first, of gold, who this inscription bears,
I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of
Enter HAMLET
But I would have the soil of her fair rape
O, let me see thee walk: thou dost not halt.
Re-enter PANTHINO
It shall go hard but I'll prove it by another.
Truly, an honest gentleman: but Anne loves him not;
Or as 'twere perfumed by a fen.
Or stronger for your need.
out of rings?
Sweet Isabel, do yet but kneel by me;
The Jew shall have my flesh, blood, bones and all,
Let me live here ever;
That's he that was Othello: here I am.
Nay, if you strive--
The fellow is distract, and so am I;
They know their master loves to be aloft,
help! I had rather than forty pound I were at home.
What, are they dead?
As till that time I shall not pity thee.
me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or
To die for't!
Whom fair befal in heaven 'mongst happy souls!
And he and his competitors in oath
May stand more proper, my eye shall be the stream
Prithee, have done;
So God help Montague as he proves true!
I would applaud thee to the very echo,
Reprieve thee from thy fate, it should proceed:
laughing to his grave, fifty-fold a cuckold! Good
You have an excellent armour; but let my horse have his due.
Exeunt
He had rather see the swords, and hear a drum, than
monster indeed, if they were set in his tail.
They are, my liege;
I am here already, sir.
Their kingdom's loss, my woful banishment,
Something from Venice, sure. 'Tis Lodovico
Are gone, are gone:
Have you the tongues?
Nor, gentle daughter, fear you not at all.
But if thou linger in my territories
'Where is the thousand marks I gave thee, villain?'
Come, father, I'll bestow you with a friend.
And they have earn'd the waste. Poor Antony!
Is yet a maiden and an innocent hand,
And pretty traps to catch the petty thieves.
cried and shrieked at it, that it passed: but women,
As life were in't: I have supp'd full with horrors;
In thy eye that shall appear
What, not a word? Nay, then thou lovest it not;
We have been praying for our husbands' healths,
And therefore 'tis high time that I were hence.
But my kisses bring again, bring again;
Now, you companion, I'll say an errand for you:
Therefore he sends to know your lordship's pleasure,
We do not mean the coursing snatchers only,
Made him joint-servant with me; gave him way
my foes, sir I profit in the knowledge of myself,
Madam.
Exit
In this wild action; for the success,
I do not know, my lord, what I should think.
Most manifest, and not denied by himself.
alone again, I'll never wrestle for prize more: and
And smooth as monumental alabaster.
You understand me, sir: so shall you stay
You, that have so fair parts of woman on you,
look you, it goes hard: one that I brought up of a
In happy time.
Marry, for Justice, she is so employ'd,
And so doth mine: I muse why she's at liberty.
Whiles lions war and battle for their dens,
To WARWICK
gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
My death's revenge, thy youth, and England's fame:
What with the sickness of Northumberland,
Gets him to rest, cramm'd with distressful bread;
Exeunt all but HORTENSIO
Enter PAGE and MISTRESS PAGE
Does of the shepherds: for his best friends, if they
Your honour has through Ephesus pour'd forth
And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear.
For his advice, nor thought I had one. She
Olivia's father took much delight in. He is about the house.
makes her story true, even to the point of her
With such holiness can you do it?
conscience, this one christening will beget a
If they do see thee, they will murder thee.
Harry, that prophesied thou shouldst be king,
O, sir, a courtesy
What, worse than nought? nay, then, a shame take all!
To have me out of Egypt, made wars here;
Come on: in this there can be no dismay;
harm, save to his bed-clothes about him; but they
Legitimation, name and all is gone:
RICHARD
commendation with woman than report of valour.
Yet will he swear he loves.
And turn you all your hatred now on me?
Must kiss their own feet.
Now the hungry lion roars,
To turn and wind a fiery Pegasus
The mercy that was quick in us but late,
But that the Scot on his unfurnish'd kingdom
What, shall a child instruct you what to do?
Exeunt MARK ANTONY, EROS, Captains, and Soldiers
Is it good den?
Where she at least is banish'd from your eye,
The idea of her life shall sweetly creep
Thou marvell'st at my words: but hold thee still;
But she is arm'd for him and keeps her guard
love. Read thou this challenge; mark but the
Not I.
Of all the days i' the year, I came to't that day
So slight a valuation, should reserve
Well, I'll make excuse.
Appear'd to me last night, for ne'er was dream
SCENE II. The coast of Wales. A castle in view.
I know not. If they speak but truth of her,
I, that am curtail'd of this fair proportion,
That, if thou conquer Rome, the benefit
His sorrows have so overwhelm'd his wits,
Well, that's set down.
This noble gentleman, Lord Titus here,
Thou mad misleader of thy brain-sick son!
Be gladded in't by me: then follows, that
Full of wise saws and modern instances;
Blasted with ecstasy: O, woe is me,
Knows not that ever he knew me.
What, look'd he frowningly?
Lysimachus our Tyrian ship espies,
[Awaking]  Help me, Lysander, help me! do thy best
Which yet from her by no means can I get.
Our greatest friends attend us.
But I will charm him first to keep his tongue.
At a word, I am not.
Aside to PORTIA
'Gainst whom I am too little to contend,
What, and stake down?
sea mocked them; and how the poor gentleman roared
The pleasure of that madness. Let 't alone.
I yet not understand the case myself.
As husbands have. What is it that they do
courtier, would hazard the winning both of first and last.
And yet my letters-patents give me leave:
Worthy tribunes,
Enter MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE
Is this the promised end
Sent forth great largess to your offices.
If any man doubt that, let him put me to my
The speediness of your return.
Exeunt all except HENRY, KATHARINE, and ALICE
The urging of that word 'judgment' hath bred a kind
To you alone.
The other did not so.
As to my ample hope was promised
Pray you, sir, deliver me this paper.
How shalt thou hope for mercy, rendering none?
England and France might, through their amity,
Of present death.
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
Though Bassianus be the emperor's brother.
Caesar? art thou led in triumph? What, is there
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
No; Master Slender is let the boys leave to play.
Come, he is here, my lord; do not deny him:
I'll come to you anon.
ACT III
That tend on mortal thoughts, unsex me here,
The title is affeer'd! Fare thee well, lord:
Swearest thou, ungracious boy? henceforth ne'er look
That e'er did lift up eye.
Goodly Lord, what a wit-snapper are you! then bid
By our proceeding in hostility;
How his companion, youthful Valentine,
Athens is become a forest of beasts.
d'Anglois vitement. Comment appelez-vous les ongles?
I go, my lord, in heart desiring still
For clothing me in these grave ornaments.
Of his own chamber and used their very daggers,
him for me, he's more and more a cat.
Stay, stand apart; I know not which is which.
'Tis oft with difference--yet do they all confirm
I came to talk of. Tell me, daughter Juliet,
To do in slander. And to behold his sway,
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio,--
Then let him know, and tell him Timon speaks it,
To snare the nimble marmoset; I'll bring thee
Sir, for your hurts, myself will be your surgeon:
Before I speak, too threateningly replies:
Have I not reason, beldams as you are,
Proceed.
Enobarbus!
And for amends to his posterity,
I am not a-hungry, I thank you, forsooth. Go,
What say they?
One that I would were here, Friar Lodowick.
What, quite unmann'd in folly?
Enter a Messenger with letters
Ah, ha! does she so?
Have lost my way for ever: I have a ship
Show'd thy dear mother any courtesy,
Enter, and cry 'The Dauphin!' presently,
Go.
DON
I think would better please 'em: by my life,
Enter KING JOHN, KING PHILLIP, LEWIS, BLANCH, QUEEN ELINOR, the BASTARD, AUSTRIA, and Attendants
That is the cause we trouble you so early;
That no king can corrupt.
I see my son Antipholus and Dromio.
Pell-mell, down with them! but be first advised,
Stands not within the prospect of belief,
Be choked with such another emphasis!
And pay thy life thou owest me for my horse!
Patience herself would startle at this letter
Can this be so? did Angelo so leave her?
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
And see already how he doth begin
Like little wanton boys that swim on bladders,
It pleased them to think me worthy of Pompion the
How doth your grace affect their motion?
His glittering arms he will commend to rust,
Condition!
Than from it issued forced drops of blood:
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
with golden fire, why, it appears no other thing to
hope to come upon them in the heat of their division.
Doth lesser blench at sufferance than I do.
Players in your housewifery, and housewives' in your beds.
Being forbid? There, take you that, sir knave.
Of pale and bloodless emulation:
With tokens thus, and thus; averting notes
traitor. Bless thy five wits! Tom's a-cold,--O, do
Unto a youthful gentleman of worth,
Because he doth not feel, feel your power quickly;
Welcome, how agreed?
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
For you shall read that my great-grandfather
Which, like unruly children, make their sire
Zounds! I was never so bethump'd with words
Yea, sir, we hope.
To haste unto your coronation,
Ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes and groves,
Nay, take me with thee, good sweet Exeter:
I'll tell you what; I think it is our way,
Here she lets fall the sword
I doubt he be hurt. Fare ye well, good niece.
Lie every man holds dear; but the brave man
Your master's mistress.
But yet I would your father had been here.
Counting myself but bad till I be best.
Whom with a crack'd heart I have sent to Rome,
Why, my young cousin, it is good to grow.
Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the first.
Yet never means to wed where he hath woo'd.
The waters swell before a boisterous storm.
I was seen with her in the manor-house, sitting with
Come on, Nerissa; I have work in hand
The brightness of her cheek would shame those stars,
Enough to purchase such another island,
The best, with whom we may articulate,
Exit
Let it be known to him that we are here.
Ay, the most peerless piece of earth, I think,
Retires
Your will be done: this must my comfort be,
Now wears his crown.
Suspicion of the deed.
No, none, but only a repair i' the dark;
Thus die I, thus, thus, thus.
Whose disposition, all the world well knows,
It shall not die.
And all things answerable to this portion.
All sworn and honourable:--they induced to steal it!
Nay, come, I pray you, sir, give me the chain:
Exeunt
And call it accident.
Peace! let us hear what Antony can say.
I shall attend your leisure: but make haste;
Call you? what is your will?
bow-string and the little hangman dare not shoot at
It were not good; for therein should we read
you not see you move him? let me alone with him.
Farewell, sweet lord, and sister.
What manner of man are you? My lord, I look'd
Prepare thy battle early in the morning,
On him that thus doth tyrannize o'er me.
To all the plains about him: our children's children
Our worser genius can, shall never melt
Bid him repair to me, and bring with him
Now, my sweet guardian! Hark, a word with you.
Because in York this breeds suspicion:
As captain shall: simply the thing I am
where he is.
And on set purpose let his armour rust
On one and other side, Trojan and Greek,
Help me hence, ho!
They prepare to play
I'll be sworn--
He hath but as offended in a dream!
Of commendations sent from Valentine,
Ay, sir; like who more bold.
And will continue fast to your affection,
The tucket sonance and the note to mount;
and use him as he uses thee; so, farewell.
Stabbing him
They will, they will, God knows,
From Fife, great king;
And hang thee o'er my tomb when I am dead:
Therefore, dear boy, mount on my swiftest horse;
Thou hast beguiled my hopes; nought but mine eye
execution: you are condemned, our general has sworn
Stuck in my throat.
Or else this blow should broach thy dearest blood.
DIANA CAPILET.
Yea, the same.
Being at Greenwich,
These four came all a-front, and mainly thrust at
and make him good friend to the people!
By heaven, I come in perfect love to him;
Let this my sword report what speech forbears.
Good uncle Marcus, see how swift she comes.
To hear from Rome. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
My duty kneeling, came there a reeking post,
world, familiar to us and unknown to lay apart
I do repent me, as it is an evil,
O thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd my daughter?
Methinks she should not use a long one for such a
My salad days,
And patient fools,
Drummer, strike up, and let us march away.
And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet:
Varro's Servant	'Twas due on forfeiture, my lord, six weeks And past.
Do not omit the heavy offer of it:
Let her not walk i' the sun: conception is a
wraths, and his cholers, and his moods, and his
In daily thanks, that gave us such a prince;
Opens the letter and reads
And you shall well be spared.
So will I, Signior Gremio: but a word, I pray.
Be gone;
You should find better dealing. What's to do?
That mourn'd for fashion, ignorant what to fear,
But you, my brace of lords, were I so minded,
No, my good lord; it was by private message.
But yet, alas, stood I within his grace,
I hold you but a subject of this war,
He served with glory and admired success,
And very sea-mark of my utmost sail.
When Fortune in her shift and change of mood
Enter, go in; the market bell is rung.
Enter ANTONY
O, father, you'll know more of that hereafter.
fire: and his lips blows at his nose, and it is like
My good lord,
If it were so,--
When I am dull with care and melancholy,
Your ancient, trusty, pleasant servant Grumio.
Exeunt
O, Signieur Dew should be a gentleman:
Nor set no footing on this unkind shore'?
a snapper-up of unconsidered trifles. With die and
Did you not speak to it?
He hath out-villained villany so far, that the
Was pitied of Macbeth: marry, he was dead:
He uses his folly like a stalking-horse and under
To-night all friends.
knits her brows.
The wanton stings and motions of the sense,
can.
And break my utterance, even in the time
What ho! Lucetta!
I was about to say--enjoy your--But
In time of action. I stand condemn'd for this;
You have stood your limitation; and the tribunes
O, I cry you mercy; you are the singer: I will say
Let but the commons hear this testament--
No, no, the bell: 'tis time that I were gone:
yours, and therefore the gift the greater.
What is the matter, my lord?
Let us be beaten, if we cannot fight.
That I will, by to-morrow dinner-time,
Enter WARWICK
Belonging to his honour; and this man
Yea, brought her hither,
Although in glorious titles he excel.
lord's behalf, I come to entreat your honour to
has letters from the general, wherein he gives my
shall see wilful adultery and murder committed.
hope you have no intent to turn husband, have you?
scour, dress meat and drink, make the beds and do
Presenting LUCENTIO
Under Captain Gower, my liege.
And to this purpose speak. Kings, princes, lords!
Sole monarch of the universal earth.
Quite in the wrong. How do you now, lieutenant?
A piece of ice: if thou doubt it, thou mayst slide
Get thee to bed, and rest; for thou hast need.
To see the general hunting in this forest?
Save thee, Curan.
Where is Lucentio?
What cause withholds you then, to mourn for him?
Here, sister; arm'd, and bloody in intent.
Are safely come to road.
die a dry death.
Who can accuse me? wherein am I guilty?
Rather directly fly.
Neither.
Two lads that thought there was no more behind
All this my sister is, or else should be.
Sorry am I that our good will effects
hope neither.
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY, EXETER, BEDFORD, GLOUCESTER, and Soldiers, with scaling-ladders
hast thou no faith in thee?
This is he.
I did some service; of such note indeed,
Go to my chamber; Put on clothes of mine.
An if this be at all, a most strange story.
Refuse me, hate me, torture me to death!
And think to wed it, he is so above me:
Marry, so I mean, sweet Katharina, in thy bed:
Let me see: every 'leven wether tods; every tod
For raging wind blows up incessant showers,
O gracious lady,
Go to the gates of Bourdeaux, trumpeter:
Or never after look me in the face:
His wife but yesternight was brought to bed;
have served you thus?
Death and destruction dog thee at the heels;
Swills your warm blood like wash, and makes his trough
Who first raised head against usurping Richard,
Their eyes do offices of truth, their words
Therefore exhale.
and shall, at the least of thy sweet notice, bring
In double knavery--How, how? Let's see:--
My lords, when you shall know--as in this rage,
Tutus Aufidius, is he within your walls?
others how they should prepare.
Choose out some secret place, some reverend room,
From thy admiring daughter took the spirits,
Exit
DON ADRIANO DE
Why should I then be false, since it is true
Had I as many eyes as thou hast wounds,
And we will come. March away.
These boys are boys of ice, they'll none have her:
But once he slander'd me with bastardy:
Fair Katharine, and most fair,
some bodily wound; there is more sense in that than
When the most mighty gods by tokens send
O, blood, blood, blood!
You take it off again?
Of all the learned and authentic fellows,--
Think'st thou I'ld make a lie of jealousy,
We thank you all for the great favour done,
Heard you this, Gonzalo?
And hast thou kill'd him sleeping? O brave touch!
you see? look you there: there's no jesting;
Alack, I am afraid they have awaked,
This is the hag, when maids lie on their backs,
But what's his offence?
And we must root him out. From your affairs
Do themselves homage: these fellows have some soul;
fellow. Has he any unbraided wares?
My good lords, hitherto, in all the progress
Myself and you, son Harry, will towards Wales,
In all designs begun on earth below
Thus got the house of Lancaster the crown.
Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.'
Come on, i' God's name; once more toward our father's.
Here, with a cup that's stored unto the brim,--
But in this kind, wanting your father's voice,
Told the most piteous tale of Lear and him
As doth the fury of two desperate men
Opinion that so sticks on Marcius shall
[Aside]  I would I knew not why it should be slow'd.
A slave without a knock.
How every fool can play upon the word! I think the
Made friends of them, joining their force 'gainst Caesar;
Both, both, my lord.
And quietness of the people, which before
potatoes; let it thunder to the tune of Green
O, like a book of sport thou'lt read me o'er;
Me seemeth then it is no policy,
urinal, that not an eye that sees you but is a
To, to, to--
Wherein--let no man hear me--I take pride,
Subscribed it, gave't the impression, placed it safely,
it may be quickly.
Manner'd as she is born.
The cloth of honour over her, are four barons
She gives the DUCHESS a box on the ear
With clog of conscience and sour melancholy
Must needs be like my lord. If it be so,
Humphrey of Gloucester, thou shalt well perceive
That they who brought me in my master's hate
What's he?
And the Athenian woman by his side:
And you this glove. When shall I see you?
Exit Attendant
it will feed my revenge. He hath disgraced me, and
Exit FALSTAFF
Strikes him
marriage than the love of the parties.
It doth appear; for, upon these taxations,
O Lancaster, I fear thy overthrow
supplication?
At difference in thee: out of that I'll work
Will rouse the proudest panther in the chase,
But, O, how oddly will it sound that I
Exeunt
Home without boots, and in foul weather too!
Ay, so I thought. How many, as you guess?
Found thee a way, out of his wreck, to rise in;
My house and welcome on their pleasure stay.
For Richard, the first son's heir, being dead,
Re-enter Clown and Shepherd
Beating him
His glassy essence, like an angry ape,
Divinest patroness, and midwife gentle
Peering in April's front. This your sheep-shearing
Mine honour, it. Repent that e'er thy tongue
God safely quit her of her burthen, and
The queen, and princess.
And bootless 'tis to tell you we will go:
For 'tis most dangerous.
Forbid the sea for to obey the moon
Music of the hautboys as under the stage
They say you are a melancholy fellow.
ACT V
Then let your servants bring my husband forth.
The loyalty well held to fools does make
I dare make his answer, none.
SCENE I. Britain. Before Cymbeline's palace.
Fancies too weak for boys, too green and idle
Sleep for a week; for the next night, I warrant,
I will not, uncle: I have forgot my father;
I pray, my lords, let me compound this strife.
My Lord Sands.
Nor dare to know that which I know. O sir!
By heaven, you did; and to confirm it plain,
And set a double varnish on the fame
Honest Ventidius; you mistake my love:
Money by me! heart and goodwill you might;
Give me some ink and paper.
Hugh Otecake, sir, or George Seacole; for they can
Call you this railing?
That ever turn'd their eyes to mortal views!--Out--
These numbers will I tear, and write in prose.
And the mute wonder lurketh in men's ears,
Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them
They vented their complainings; which being answer'd,
I will ever be your head:
ACT V
And his gash'd stabs look'd like a breach in nature
Well, what would you say?
Was ever woman in this humour woo'd?
What noise? what shriek is this?
will be strong with us for giving over.
That thus affect'st a sheep-hook! Thou old traitor,
No doubt the murderous knife was dull and blunt
Look, he recovers.
Exeunt all but WARWICK
But when her humorous ladyship is by
Had I so good occasion to lie long
Constrains them weep and shake with fear and sorrow;
Nay, he struck so plainly, I could too well feel his
Be call'd to him.
What is your tidings?
I will bestow some precepts of this virgin
Let me hear no more.
Goes on my master's grief.
measured swords and parted.
That heart, which now abhors, to like his love.
His heart, like an agate, with your print impress'd,
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
I do beseech you, sir, trouble yourself no further.
This, Douglas? no: I know this face full well:
For more amazement. If you can behold it,
What have you dream'd of late of this war's purpose?
But now I see this one is one too much,
Where is he?
O, I could hew up rocks and fight with flint,
Exeunt SEBASTIAN, and ANTONIO
fetch thee with a wanion.
indeed, he has no pace, but runs where he will.
Makes flexible the knees of knotted oaks,
We have yet many among us can gripe as hard as
It is so, sir: truly, I have forgot you.
That you elect no other king but him;
Most villanously; like a pedant that keeps a school
He that retires I'll take him for a Volsce,
And made your other love, Demetrius,
This dangerous treason lurking in our way
most vilely in the afternoon, when he is drunk: when
What's that?
Teeth hadst thou in thy head when thou wast born,
He was not sad, for he would shine on those
Boy, Lucius! Varro! Claudius! Sirs, awake! Claudius!
give the dozen white luces in their coat.
To blaze your marriage, reconcile your friends,
Therein, ye gods, you tyrants do defeat:
Begin, sir; you are my elder.
So, by your circumstance, I fear you'll prove.
Well, no more.
Like a hell-broth boil and bubble.
Receiving them from such a worthless post.
But not, as I am, royal.
From whom you now must steal and take no leave,
This, in the name of God, I promise here:
five-score.
Age, thou hast lost thy labour.
Ay, but yet
You had not found me here so musical:
Being entreated to it by your friend.
The goats ran from the mountains, and the herds
No longer stay.
The cowslips tall her pensioners be:
The fresh green lap of fair King Richard's land,
Well, mildly be it then. Mildly!
And, if the rest be true which I have heard,
This weighty business will not brook delay:
Ergo, Master Launcelot. Talk not of Master
wakes, fairs and bear-baitings.
I'll be his surety.
Thank, gentle uncle. Come, lords, away.
The clock struck nine when I did send the nurse;
Why, then fly on, I'll hunt thee for thy hide.
Let it be so.
Aside
purpose, confess thyself--
Strikes him
Oft have I seen a hot o'erweening cur
I would they'ld fight i' the fire or i' the air;
renowned French physician.
But dust was thrown upon his sacred head:
But to her love concerneth us to add
We shall remain in friendship, our conditions
Thine intellect? hath he been in thy heart?
Shall bear the olive freely.
Whip to our tents, as roes run o'er land.
To make a world-without-end bargain in.
More than a lodged hate and a certain loathing
ship boring the moon with her main-mast, and anon
But riches fineless is as poor as winter
Alas,  good master, my wife desired some damsons,
tongue in's arms. I will put on his presence: let
That henceforth he shall trouble us no more.
Yonder comes news. A wager they have met.
Good morrow, Casca. Caius Ligarius,
Lost, and recover'd in a day again!
Dare no more stretch this finger of mine than he
Even for the service that long since I did thee,
He thus should steal upon us.
I know thee well, though never seen before.
That he should die is worthy policy;
some to make bonfires, each man to what sport and
And let the Christian go.
Enter RATCLIFF, with halberds, carrying RIVERS, GREY, and VAUGHAN to death
And in the duke's behalf I'll give my voice,
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
The throne he sits on, nor the tide of pomp
I knew him.
An end, sir; to your business. Give Helen this,
Nay, we must use expostulation kindly,
For me,
honourable respect, and worn as a memorable trophy of
Enter CORIOLANUS, VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, MENENIUS, COMINIUS, with the young Nobility of Rome
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Your hazard shall be made.
'Tis my deserving, and I do entreat it.
And soundly too: your houses!
Upon their ancient malice will forget
But when my angry guardant stood alone,
No more amazement: tell your piteous heart
And I.
And sat at good men's feasts and wiped our eyes
This growing image of thy fiend-like face?
So do I too, if it be not too much: brings a'
To make me slave to it; and for your sake
Supposing that I lack'd it. But, on, Caesar;
The Moor's abused by some most villanous knave,
You are too blunt: go to it orderly.
Say, how grows it due?
Well, well; there's one yonder arrested and carried
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
A glorious angel: then, if angels fight,
That with our small conjunction we should on,
The Prince of Wales from such a field as this,
The Count Rousillon: know you such a one?
'Tis to his virtue a just equinox,
But, for his purpose in the coronation.
As great as is thy master, greater, for
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes
And Lord Scales with him and Lord Hungerford:
In each eye, one: swear by your double self,
Sings
No, no, the drink, the drink,--O my dear Hamlet,--
Exposed unto the sea, which hath requit it,
Enter Nurse and PETER
The ne'er-yet-beaten horse of Parthia
If I know how or which way to order these affairs
By maidhood, honour, truth and every thing,
Brother, for in that name doth nature plead,--
myself: they have pitched a toil; I am toiling in
Were placed the heads of Edmund Duke of Somerset,
Wherefore should you so?
Demetrius loves her, and he loves not you.
Bear Worcester to the death and Vernon too:
I do desire it.
To make it truster of your own report
Remember it, my lord?
Even as soon as thou canst, for thou hast to pull at
give her two.
Some shipping unrestored: lastly, he frets
In which so many smiling Romans bathed,
I charge you see that he be forthcoming.
Excellent well; you are a fishmonger.
Let me ask you one word in private.
Leonato's: commend me to him and tell him I will
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
The times and titles now are alter'd strangely
He call'd them untaught knaves, unmannerly,
Hired to it by your brother.
O coward conscience, how dost thou afflict me!
Dare rack his own: his subject am I not,
Did call me brother.
It skills not greatly who impugns our doom.
I will requite you with as good a thing;
To these ill-tuned repetitions.
Now thrive the armourers, and honour's thought
thine ear: change places; and, handy-dandy, which
The view of earthly glory: men might say,
That he is open to incontinency;
That, I being absent and my place supplied,
Than hew to't with thy sword.
Peace, I say!
Hear us, great kings: vouchsafe awhile to stay,
And rather proved the sliding of your brother
me: but I requited him for his lie; and, I
the pudding in his belly, that reverend vice, that
Than curse it then. But be it; let it live.
Good hearts, devise something: any extremity rather
Exeunt
Now the good gods forbid
Ay, madam, knowingly.
Avoid the gallery.
My wind cooling my broth
I'll blush you thanks.
Alarums. They fight. EDMUND falls
wakened thy dog that hath lain asleep in the sun:
He lent me counsel and I lent him eyes.
'Tis so: and as war, in some sort, may be said to
Is every flatterer's spirit. Who can call him
Am I but three inches? why, thy horn is a foot; and
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing, unseen,
That nothing but himself which looks like man
thy honour
For single combat in convenient place,
Hath been beyond account.
And vaulted with such ease into his seat,
thou seest her before me, commend me.
Moves like a ghost. Thou sure and firm-set earth,
Exit
I' the last night's storm I such a fellow saw;
Such instigations have been often dropp'd
As I have heard my father speak himself,
Will you be mine, now you are doubly won?
Of nothing: bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
Come, some music!
The citizens fly and forsake their houses:
Our fertile France, put up her lovely visage?
Reason becomes the marshal to my will
In God's name, what art thou?
To chide him from our eaves; for he persists
Noting this penury, to myself I said
Let our drums strike.
Exit
winds and rocks. The man is, notwithstanding,
And the business you have broached here cannot be
Who ever yet could sound thy bottom? find
Farewell.
Do not stand upon't.
The climate's delicate, the air most sweet,
O, that a lady, of one man refused.
My education been in arts and arms;
Their crownets regal, from the Athenian bay
She cannot endure to hear tell of a husband.
Apollo be my judge!
This true which they so seem to fear. Go home,
Give me a cup of sack, rogue. Is there no virtue extant?
And after seem to chide 'em. This shall make
This is the fairy land: O spite of spites!
What say'st thou, Henry, wilt thou yield the crown?
If this were so, so were it uttered.
the meeting of the two kings?
Now, Salisbury, for thee, and for the right
Seem frosty? O, for honour of our land,
O, may diseases only work upon't!
If it be so, out with it boldly, man;
You shall do well; the fault of it I'll answer.
As I suck blood, I will some mercy show.
Let not the heavens hear these tell-tale women
And if not that, I bring you witnesses,
Musing and sighing, with your arms across,
From seasons such as these? O, I have ta'en
Speak to me what thou art.
Ay, and 'Rato-lorum' too; and a gentleman born,
With ignominious words, though clerkly couch'd,
The virtuous lady, Countess of Auvergne,
Out upon her! Thou torturest me, Tubal: it was my
a light burning.
Od's plessed will! I will not be absence at the grace.
The king cried Ha! at this.
SCENE I. Rome. Before the Capitol.
Were not you then as cruel as the sentence
marvellous good neighbour, faith, and a very good
Why, what have you to do whither they bear it? You
And fair words to them.
By slaves that take their humours for a warrant
Pointing to POLONIUS
Great Agamemnon, Nestor shall apply
The men that gave their country liberty.
Instruction, manners, mysteries, and trades,
And, after that wise prince, Henry the Fifth,
For that's the golden mark I seek to hit:
By my troth, most pleasant: how both did fit it!
nobleman, and she sent him away as cold as a
Do not you know my lady's foot by the squier,
And if his name be George, I'll call him Peter;
Name not the god, thou boy of tears!
Then he hath wrong'd himself; if he be free,
Where's hourly trouble for a minute's ease.
We shall appear before him. On there; pass along!
That you unfold to me, yourself, your half,
Sign'd in thy spoil, and crimson'd in thy lethe.
Swear me to this, and I will ne'er say no.
To hide your doings; and to silence that,
Either to suffer shipwreck or arrive
[To CLAUDIO]  Means your lordship to be married
his angers, look you, kill his best friend, Cleitus.
Withal obdurate, do not hear him plead;
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
Come down upon us with a mighty power,
O sweet Portia,
So had you need.
Before I enter'd here, I call'd; and thought
No hare, sir; unless a hare, sir, in a lenten pie,
Exeunt. Flourish
For we have now no thought in us but France,
like my lady your niece: on a forgotten matter we
To make of him a formal man again:
And then will I be general of your woes,
Re-enter DUKE VINCENTIO
'Tis false.
That you start at it? I say, I am your mother;
Of beauty's tutors have enrich'd you with?
Flourish. Exeunt all but YORK, WARWICK, EXETER and VERNON
When it concerns the fool or coward. On:
Was there with him, if I have heard a truth.
Their scanted courtesy.
She made good view of me; indeed, so much,
Had princes sit, like stars, about his throne,
Hearken after their offence, my lord.
I think his soul is in hell, madonna.
That our superfluous lackeys and our peasants,
To the court! why, what place make you special,
Whilst man and master laugh my woes to scorn.
I will have more, or else unsay't; and now,
Hath gained thy daughter princely liberty.
couples are coming to the ark. Here comes a pair of
Ay, or any show that you'll show him: be not you
Some eight or ten.
More health and happiness betide my liege
Drink thou; increase the reels.
One raised in blood, and one in blood establish'd;
Now, unto thy bones good night!
Would not entreat for life?
I am a child to chiding.
by law: I'll not budge an inch, boy: let him come,
The effects of sorrow for his valiant sons,
Sexton too.
heard a man of his place, gravity and learning, so
fought a most prave pattle here in France.
Dear nurse of arts and joyful births,
What does his lordship mean?
Unless it be to come before their time;
If then one is, or hath, or means to be,
To have him suddenly convey'd away.
Death.
Or rather, bottomless, that as fast as you pour
Come, let us to our holy task again.
Hugh Capet also, who usurped the crown
upon your traitorous father are not fit for your
Quite to forget this quarrel and the cause.
Nay, then, he is a conjurer.
Should not in this best garden of the world
For I have gain'd by 't.
Therefore, Lord Oxford, to prevent the worst,
What should I don this robe, and trouble you?
I am so far already in your gifts,--
Prove violence; in the which three great ones suffer,
admiration? Impart.
Since she was Cleopatra? Whip him, fellows,
And let your fervor, like my master's, be
Appoint a meeting with this old fat fellow,
For doting, not for loving, pupil mine.
You English princes all, I do salute you.
As jewels lose their glory if neglected,
Applying another asp to her arm
Of treasonous malice.
Graceless! wilt thou deny thy parentage?
I do not set my life in a pin's fee;
But send him back.
Both he and they and you, every man
And my pretext to strike at him admits
Pray you, where lies Sir Proteus?
I will enforce it easily to my love.
I do profess
that ever I heard.
Whose veins bound richer blood than Lady Blanch?
Well met, Master Ford.
South-west.
Of singular integrity and learning,
In way of marriage: therefore be advised.
Thou shalt have justice, more than thou desirest.
I have a roisting challenge sent amongst
Duck with French nods and apish courtesy,
And so are like to do.
This is no mortal business, nor no sound
[Beneath]  Swear.
He's a bear indeed, that lives like a lamb. You two
And for the Jew's bond which he hath of me,
To raise so great a siege. Therefore, great king,
'Tis to be doubted, madam.
To her decrepit, sick and bedrid father:
Good brother, as thou lovest and honourest arms,
My life thou shalt command, but not my shame:
ACT II
natures more than is native to them--list me. The
these boots too: an they be not, let them hang
Moulded the stuff so fair,
The whole world shall not save him.
And therefore fortify your hold, my lord.
Peace, tender sapling; thou art made of tears,
Of mine own kindred: when I waked, I found
It is a bitter deputy.
Good sir,--
A' has a little gall'd me, I confess;
You may pace easy, but not such a wife.
And say 'Tis true,' I'ld not believe them more
in the oppression of aged tyranny; who sways, not
The wonder is, he hath endured so long:
Lest he should take exceptions to my love;
Alas, poor lady, desolate and left!
What enterprise, Popilius?
As calling home our exiled friends abroad
Honest, my lord!
And loves to live i' the sun,
thou dost him any slight disgrace or if he do not
In opposition bloody. I cannot speak
Two curs shall tame each other: pride alone
Enter JULIET
Yon knight doth sit too melancholy,
O Pomfret, Pomfret! O thou bloody prison,
I should have fear'd her had she been a devil.'
it no further: I had thought to have let in
The fellow has a deal of that too much,
In love?
He is my prize; I will not look upon.
jealous wittolly knave hath masses of money; for the
soldier, put up your iron: you are well fleshed; come on.
Than this is all as true as it is strange:
Wherein the worship of the whole world lies.
To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what
Whilst he, from the one side to the other turning,
was born to speak all mirth and no matter.
By the Lord, I knew ye as well as he that made ye.
I pray thee, do not mock me, fellow-student;
Behold, sir king,
merry. Now, good Peter Quince, call forth your
And thus I seal my truth, and bid adieu.
I give, my cause who best can justify.
marvellous infection to the little page; and truly
but when he performs, astronomers foretell it; it
Was never yet for sleep.
I told your majesty as much before:
And that will quickly dry thy melting tears.
Ovidius Naso was the man: and why, indeed, Naso,
Safe mayst thou wander, safe return again!
No more of stay! to-morrow thou must go.
I take this offer, then; pay the bond thrice
Let us not hang like roping icicles
fee'd every slight occasion that could but niggardly
Poor fellow, never joyed since the price of oats
Dost thou hear, my honest friend?
So fill'd and so becoming: in pure white robes,
The painter plays the spider and hath woven
Knock at the gate! O heavens! Spake you not these
To leave the figure or disfigure it.
instrument you will, though you can fret me, yet you
Comes hunting this way to disport himself.
With those of nobler bulk!
Monday! ha, ha! Well, Wednesday is too soon,
Lucius, awake!
Flourish. Enter KING, COUNTESS, LAFEU, the two French Lords, with Attendants
To bind our loves up in a holy band;
are hungry: if there be any of him left, I'll bury
Go, Sir Andrew: scout me for him at the corner the
careful man and a great scholar. The competitors enter.
nothing, nuncle?
Ever a friend whose thoughts more truly labour
Good father, tell her that she and my aunt Percy
To give it from me.
If beauty, wisdom, modesty, can settle
Our potency made good, take thy reward.
Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave
Will you not eat your word?
His speech, was like a tangled chain; nothing
her as love hath pursued me; which hath been on the
There is no measure in the occasion that breeds;
Great Jupiter, upon his eagle back'd,
earth. Would it not grieve a woman to be
Shall cross the seas, and bid false Edward battle;
Your vile intent must needs seem horrible.
Exeunt BENEDICK and LEONATO
But what it is, that is not yet known; what
Exit
Scots, Douglas, that runs o' horseback up a hill
What shall be our sport, then?
Young Edward lives: think now what I would say.
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced;
Travelling some journey, to repose him here.
And fought the holy wars in Palestine,
Let the garden door be shut, and leave me to my hearing.
was guilty of.
to-day: you, to Sempronius: commend me to their
Borachio.
further charge, that you swerve not from the
to depute Cassio in Othello's place.
Of ten times double gain of happiness.
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
Where you did give a fair and natural light,
Till thou dost hear me call.
majesty's name, apprehend him: he's a friend of the
With twenty popish tricks and ceremonies,
Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house,
And suddenly; where injury of chance
My name, dear saint, is hateful to myself,
Fortune and victory sit on thy helm!
I scarce did know you, uncle: there lies your niece,
How he did shake: 'tis true, this god did shake;
And, Proteus, we dare trust you in this kind,
Nothing.
What shall I say? Where's satisfaction?
Farewell: yet, soft! Hector! take my leave:
O, soft, air! hold you still:
Was fairer than his grandam and as chaste
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell,
Good countrymen, let me depart alone,
No, I will not, for it boots thee not.
Thou art, great lord, my father's sister's son,
Enter a Messenger
Enter DECIUS BRUTUS
Which finds it an inforced pilgrimage.
I mother, wife, and yet his child.
All is well yet.
So part we sadly in this troublous world,
Her gentlewomen, like the Nereides,
beauty, can do no more, spoil upon my face: thou
But yet, methinks, my father's execution
Left to be finished by such as she;
That would not be a queen, that would she not,
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
I will incontinently drown myself.
Fill, Lucius, till the wine o'erswell the cup;
Let's hear it.
O gentle Aaron, we are all undone!
Unheedful vows may heedfully be broken,
To penetrative shame, whilst the wheel'd seat
The time is out of joint: O cursed spite,
To leave that latest which concerns him first,
For this one speech Lord Hastings well deserves
Let him alone;
Exhalest this vapour-vow; in thee it is:
In the cathedral church of Westminster,
What, can you do me greater harm than hate?
Ay, and burn too.
may reign in them now! O Imogen,
Yes, yes, it was Bassanio; as I think, he was so called.
And O shall end, I hope.
For she was yielded there.
To stir against the butchers of his life!
As is the spring to the earth. And hath he too
'Caesar, beware of Brutus; take heed of Cassius;
They grow still too; from all parts they are coming,
By doing damned hate upon thyself?
In passion shook.
and thou art to post after with oars. What's the
Is all thy comfort shut in Gloucester's tomb?
Lords, I am hot with haste in seeking you:
Is term'd the civil'st place of this isle:
And Regan with him: have you nothing said
AENEAS passes
Marry, sir, halfpenny farthing.
Exeunt Lords
grandfather's.
And honour'd in their issue.
out water in foul way?
'Who chooseth me must give and hazard all he hath.'
Go to, go to: no matter for the dish, sir.
So much as of a thought of ill in him.
In the true course of all the question.
Then swore he that he was a stranger here.
Re-enter OPHELIA
Not sensible of fire, remain'd unscorch'd.
Enter a second Messenger
The deed, which both our tongues held vile to name.
For 'tis a sign of love; and love to Richard
Descend unto the daughter. Gracious lord,
What is your will?
The matter being afoot, keep your instruction,
And 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held
Come, hang them on this line.
Of all perfections that a man may owe,
shoes in the grime of it.
Of outward order: this we came not to,
Whip me? No, no; let carman whip his jade:
Set down by the poll?
'cum privilegio ad imprimendum solum:' to the
may, though they cannot praise us, as little accuse
But only they have privilege to live.
Do you triumph, Roman? do you triumph?
With thy unworthiness, thou diest: away!
That wounds me with the flatteries of his tongue.
I will visit thee at the lodge.
This world to me is like a lasting storm,
SCENE III. Tyre. An ante-chamber in the palace.
Away, my lord! you are slow; for shame, away!
To BELARIUS
Ere ye come there, be sure to hear some news.
First, her bedchamber,--
And tell 's a tale.
The future in the instant.
For the Lord's tokens on you do I see.
Done to death by slanderous tongues
Under whose colours he had fought so long.
I do love Cassio well; and would do much
So tediously away. The poor condemned English,
For fear of that, I still will stay with thee;
Being skilless in these parts; which to a stranger,
Why, what effects of passion shows she?
Why, madam?
Lord Longaville said, I came o'er his heart;
I thank my beauty, I am fair that shoot,
I will have that subject newly writ o'er, that I may
Then was Venus like her mother, for her father is but grim.
gallant king!
Recover breath; tell us how near is danger,
I would outstare the sternest eyes that look,
Where will the old duke live?
Let them alone awhile, and then open the door.
Bondage is hoarse, and may not speak aloud;
Pray heartily he be at palace.
Less than an ace, man; for he is dead; he is nothing.
O, I am mock'd,
Yes, an't please you, sir.
Strange tortures for offenders never heard of,
To wrong'd Othello's service! Let him command,
Why have I blabb'd? who shall be true to us,
Alas, the way is wearisome and long!
Inspired merit so by breath is barr'd:
I make bold to press with so little preparation upon
And to that woman, when she has done most,
Nay, good goose, bite not.
Rome and her rats are at the point of battle;
Tell me where is fancy bred,
No; if without more words you will get you hence.
I kill'd a man, whose death I much repent;
And meritorious shall that hand be call'd,
hold up his head, as it were, and strut in his gait?
To him again: tell him he wears the rose
And yet I will not, sith so prettily
County Anselme and his beauteous sisters; the lady
By what we can, which can no more but fly.
Exit
SCENE III. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
catch, if he knock out either of your brains: a'
Make me, that nothing have, with nothing grieved,
Speak yet, how grew your quarrel?
When first I did embrace him: yet his nature
Not with vain thanks, but with acceptance bounteous,
Quite through the deeds of men: he loves no plays,
desire to hear the fear of Got, and not to hear a
To QUEEN ELIZABETH
Save that there was not time enough to hear,
And quite divorce his memory from his part.
Good man, the wounds that he does bear for Rome!
What is the matter?
Limehouse, their dear brothers, are able to endure.
Mine, fifty talents.
For he was fitter for that place than earth.
Press me not, beseech you, so.
A devil in an everlasting garment hath him;
O, that she knew she were!
Last night 'twas on mine arm; I kiss'd it:
Feeds in the bosom of such great commanders,
He sent in writing after me; what he would not,
You having lands, and blest with beauteous wives,
That might annoy my finger? 'tis so strange,
O Sisters Three,
O monstrous! monstrous!
Slave!
Enter Attendants
What, ho! no watch? no passage? murder! murder!
Should pass this way as you did: O, the Fates!
I saw him beat the surges under him,
Aaron, thou hast hit it.
When they did say 'God bless us!'
Which is not yet perform'd me.
That indirectly and directly too
But, if I bow, they'll say it was for fear.
Go, call before me all the lords in court.
All take hands.
Shall we call in the ambassador, my liege?
vain-glories?
To-morrow are let blood at Pomfret-castle;
kinsman, he's a most notable coward, an infinite and
Thou hast suborn'd the goldsmith to arrest me.
All the foul terrors in dark-seated hell--
Exit
Thou dost not slumber: see, thy two sons' heads,
No better than a poor and loathsome beggar:
myself, to be in a due resolution.
But when they seldom come, they wish'd for come,
Enter VALENTINE and VIOLA in man's attire
Balk'd in their own blood did Sir Walter see
Than an unstringed viol or a harp,
Re-enter CLOTEN
The fire seven times tried this:
SCENE I. France. Before Harfleur.
If I do vow a friendship, I'll perform it
If ever mortal eyes do see them bolster
All the contagion of the south light on you,
With him along is come the mother-queen,
for such store,
Priam's slaughter: if it live in your memory, begin
Appear'd to me, with other spritely shows
Prize you yourselves: what buys your company?
In the old time of war, would shake the press,
He whispers in his ear
[Above]  O my lord!
O, Apemantus, you are welcome.
For what offence have I this fortnight been
Enter SPEED
Alas, she has no speech.
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
That waits upon your grace?
Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk,
I warrant thee, my man's as true as steel.
between you.
That holds in chase mine honour up and down?
As what I think might be, but what I know
Came to your court, how I was in your grace,
Presents well worthy Rome's imperial lord:
Enter the BASTARD
On Neptune's billow; half the flood
them a fair departure.
Exit SALISBURY
And yet take this again; and yet I thank you,
So bold Leander would adventure it.
O, give me leave, I have deluded you:
Which I would free, if I shall be condemn'd
Begin again
sweet Bianca, if I can by any means light on a fit
Whose sovereignty so oft thou hast preferr'd
It will not speak; then I will follow it.
And many worthy and chaste dames even thus,
As being got, your father then in France,
'Tis very good; I must be circumstanced.
I do protest, I never injured thee,
And tell me how you would bestow yourself.
Our terrible approach.
And the deep-drawing barks do there disgorge
Reads
for some hour before you took me from the breach of
Enter CAPULET, LADY  CAPULET, Nurse, and two Servingmen
fit for your o'er-looking.
in mine eyes too, and such an ache in my bones
I know that; but I would have thee hence, and here again.
And some few vanities that make him light;
Are you not stronger than you were?
O, know he is the bridle of your will.
Brimful of sorrow and dismay; but chiefly
Since I heard thence; these are the words: I think
O, bear me witness, night,--
What, with worms and flies?
By the misprising of a maid too virtuous
And Eglamour is in her company.
And wear it for an honour in thy cap
He were an excellent man that were made just in the
Swear that he shall, and then I will begin.
Gremio, 'tis now no time to vent our love:
Dream on thy cousins smother'd in the Tower:
Clean from the purpose of the things themselves.
Prithee, unpin me,--have grace and favour in them.
The daintiest last, to make the end most sweet:
And each particular hair to stand on end,
on when thou art dead and rotten, come hither. What
To set him free from his captivity.
Exit
Say not 'treasonous.'
As hell, Sir Topas.
Who thinks he knows that he ne'er knew my body,
That I, which know my heart, do here pronounce,
O villain!
Some harlot's spirit! my throat of war be turn'd,
And open this to Pericles. I do shame
Ram thou thy fruitful tidings in mine ears,
Enter PISTOL
Under the blossom that hangs on the bough.
If you we re civil and knew courtesy,
A just and open trial. While she lives
From mine own library with volumes that
It is your fault that I have loved Posthumus:
Flourish. Trumpets sound, and drums
As if it had been sow'd. Yet still it's strange
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
His arms in this sad knot.
Which with usurping steps do trample thee:
Is Paris lost? is Rouen yielded up?
You have no cause to hold my friendship doubtful:
My haste is very great: farewell; hie home.
trim ones too: he is now as valiant as Hercules
No man must know.
For Humphrey being dead, as he shall be,
Send to her, by the man that slew her brothers,
To this chair bind him. Villain, thou shalt find--
Do so;
About their functions friendly.
Let's do so. But he sleeps.
That, undividable, incorporate,
Cry, Trojans, cry! lend me ten thousand eyes,
Now are they but one lamp, one light, one sun.
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
But that which ends all counsel, true redress,
What further comes.
yet, had he mistook him and sent to me, I should
Take you your instrument, play you the whiles;
Faith, so they say; but I think it rather consists
Antony's course, you shall bereave yourself
All you unpublish'd virtues of the earth,
Exit
Methinks my moiety, north from Burton here,
Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester,
live cleanly as a nobleman should do.
The savage bull may; but if ever the sensible
To change the cod's head for the salmon's tail;
That they are out by lease.
And bid that strumpet, your unhallow'd dam,
Who is thy lord?
It boots thee not to be compassionate:
Be round impaled with a glorious crown.
It is thy business that I go about;
May pass into the presence of a king,
With thy sharp teeth this knot intrinsicate
Ay, and for that thou diest.
Who is so far from Italy removed
king, nor the queen: and therefore, Peter, have at
Titus, unkind and careless of thine own,
What would you have, friend? whence are you?
Provost, my brother Angelo will not be altered;
For I have heard it said
From forth this morsel of dead royalty,
Our grandam earth, having this distemperature,
Let his deservings and my love withal
A piece of work that will make sick men whole.
For terror, not to use, in time the rod
ACT I
As I perceived his grace would fain have done,
Which, by the heavens' assistance and your strength,
The throstle with his note so true,
Full of the pasture, jumps along by him
Put forth toward Phrygia; and their vow is made
for, believe me, I hear the parson is no jester.
Are gone with him towards Dover; where they boast
How the devil Luxury, with his fat rump and
And so do I too, lieutenant.
Why then you must. But hear thee, Gratiano;
Becomes the field, but here shows much amiss.
her, unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it,
French upbraided or abused in disdainful language;
hath ta'en thy life by some indirect means or other;
A time that lovers' flights doth still conceal,
Are you so formal, sir? well, I must wait,
Of me and all that I can make;
Not yours, in good sooth! Heart! you swear like a
To have my pardon, trim it handsomely.
Join not with grief, fair woman, do not so,
Go ask his name: if he be married.
But, since the cuckoo builds not for himself,
At least in my opinion.
Burn hotter than my faith.
were good pancakes and swore by his honour the
In our sustaining corn. A century send forth;
clean kept: for why, she sweats; a man may go over
Do I put up that womanly defence,
Be not so rash; take ransom, let him live.
Become them with one half so good a grace
Why sir, how do you bear with me?
Let us all ring fancy's knell
Exit HORATIO
To our attempts. Am I not stay'd for, Cinna?
Alarums. Enter CASSIUS and TITINIUS
With it beat out his brains! Piety, and fear,
Assemble all the poor men of your sort;
Thriftless ambition, that wilt ravin up
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.
That none but fools would keep: a breath thou art,
Enter SCALES upon the Tower, walking. Then enter two or three Citizens below
privily relieve him: go you and maintain talk with
It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;
Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy! not a word?
You had not show'd them how ye were disposed
And here, neighbour, here's a cup of charneco.
He only lived but till he was a man;
Awake, thou coward majesty! thou sleepest.
'As by lot, God wot,'
That the great figure of a council frames
Almost forgot my prayers to content him?
For nothing can be ill, if she be well.
Any retirement, any sequestration
Speak not so grossly. You are all amazed:
Sowter will cry upon't for all this, though it be as
The beacon of the wise, the tent that searches
I will, my lord.
And he knew my deceased father well.
But prosper better than the Trojan did.
Exit
To crown himself king and suppress the prince.
Will you go see the order of the course?
Enter Provost, CLAUDIO, JULIET, and Officers
You know not why we came to visit you,--
some little measure draw a belief from you, to do
In pious rage the two delinquents tear,
be both at once delivered.
ACT IV
A nest of traitors!
We, Hermia, like two artificial gods,
The fool hath planted in his memory
Here, uncle Exeter, fill this glove with crowns,
With surety stronger than Achilles' arm
And entertain'd 'em deeply in her heart.
Their infants quarter'd with the hands of war;
Why, it contains no king?
We mourn in black: why mourn we not in blood?
Am I in France?
And let not Bardolph's vital thread be cut
Cupid all arm'd: a certain aim he took
'Gainst knaves and thieves men shut their gate,
Of sky-aspiring and ambitious thoughts,
And kiss the lips of unacquainted change
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
A victory is twice itself when the achiever brings
Go; speak not to me; even now be gone.
There's none but asses will be bridled so.
SCENE IV. London. The Tower.
wit and it will out at the casement; shut that and
Shall love, in building, grow so ruinous?
And if thou tell'st the heavy story right,
Come, good sir, will you show me to this house?
If not from hell? the devil is a niggard,
Pretty too! What say you, James Soundpost?
that had received so much shame, you might begin an
How!
But like a pleasant slumber in thy lap?
To the king's ship, invisible as thou art:
Blood and destruction shall be so in use
Though other things grow fair against the sun,
it; whom to disobey were against all proportion of
With hidden help and vantage, or that with both
That, being of so young days brought up with him,
Aaron, I see thou wilt not trust the air
Exit
Neanmoins, je reciterai une autre fois ma lecon
The tribunes are no soldiers; and their people
To save at least the heir of Edward's right:
Am heir to my affection.
know your answer?
Mass, and well said; a merry whoreson, ha!
To stop all hopes whose growth may damage me.
Sith yet there is a credence in my heart,
And wilt not come? Come, recreant; come, thou child;
And hearing your high majesty is touch'd
My lady sweet, arise:
Marry, sir, by my wife; who, if she had been a woman
And so am I for Rosalind.
As you love strokes, so jest with me again.
First, to thy sacred state wish I all happiness.
Nay, I know not.
The grave does to the dead; for her male issue
If thou hatest curses,
And show what we alone must think, which never
Your lieutenant, if you list; he's no standard.
The sun, for sorrow, will not show his head:
Have patience, sir,
And cursed Dionyza hath
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet:
Come to one mark; as many ways meet in one town;
Cure this great breach in his abused nature!
A hundred thousand welcomes. I could weep
DON
Bid them home:
King, father, royal Dane: O, answer me!
To place upon the volume of your deeds,
Doth live again in thee: long mayst thou live
Come, Balthasar, we'll hear that song again.
Enter a Doctor of Physic and a Waiting-Gentlewoman
A burning torch that's turned upside down;
Transform us not to women.
As well as we! ay, and better too; we offend worse.
of his council.
Like Caesar's sister: the wife of Antony
If he be none of mine, my sanctity
When the sweet breath of flattery conquers strife.
At your den, sirrah, with your lioness
To have her name repeated: all her deserving
The tyrant has not batter'd at their peace?
And thrown into neglect the pompous court?
Go not about; my love hath in't a bond,
And sauced our broths, as Juno had been sick
The what?
Of those that claim their offices this day
How it doth grieve me that thy head is here!
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
True; who bears hard
was begot between two stock-fishes. But it is
That calls our person from our morning's rest?
The eldest of the three wrestled with Charles, the
Exeunt
[Reads]  'With a trunk sleeve:'
Exeunt
Good king, to be so mightily abused!
By any other name would smell as sweet;
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
For, as he writes, there is no quailing now.
Come, go with me.
And here ye lie baiting of bombards, when
To such as may the passive drugs of it
Within rich Pisa walls, as any one
you: let the justices make you and fortune friends:
Think we King Harry strong;
I slew the coward, and did take it from him.
'This we received;' and each in either side
Be here at Belmont; she doth stray about
Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heaven
Trust me, my lord, all hitherto goes well;
And, sith there's no justice in earth nor hell,
Son, I have overheard what hath passed between you
Once did I lay an ambush for your life,
paper-mill. It will be proved to thy face that thou
Speak you this in my praise, master?
Sit, gods, upon your thrones, and smile at Troy!
You bear too stubborn and too strange a hand
It is an accustomed action with her, to seem thus
Will triumph o'er my person; which I weigh not,
would desires to be acquainted withal.
As who should say 'Old lad, I am thine own.'
Leaves them invisible, and his siege is now
moon; or, rather, the sun, and not the moon; for it
Marry, is it; the very point of it; to Mistress Anne Page.
To look our dead, and then to bury them;
Whether you will or no.
In his own course.
I must be patient till the heavens look
Shalt waft them over with our royal fleet.
That hand which had the strength, even at your door,
falsely accused by the villain.
Urge it no more; lest that, instead of words,
As prisoners to her womanly persuasion.
The intertissued robe of gold and pearl,
strike sooner than speak, and speak sooner than
Like to a chaos, or an unlick'd bear-whelp
Of a pair of bases.
So saucy with the hand of she here,--what's her name,
Eight wild-boars roasted whole at a breakfast, and
Hast thou drunk well?
Exeunt
And gave me up to tears.
Madest quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne.
Enter a Messenger
Let but your honour know,
Exit
And not obedient to his honest will,
What is this
We with our stately presence glorify,
A heart so tender o'er it, take it hence
Either there is a civil strife in heaven,
To say the truth, true and not true.
Outrun the pauser, reason. Here lay Duncan,
In such a night
Happily we met; the happier for thy son.
carries some stain of it: he is melancholy without
I pray you, after the lieutenant; go.
a companion of the king's, who is intituled, nomi-
If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who
For on my heart they tread now whilst I live;
Go, say I sent thee forth to purchase honour
Quit all offences with as clear excuse
The deep damnation of his taking-off;
Or with some dram conjured to this effect,
As lean-faced Envy in her loathsome cave:
Exceed three days: in faith, he's penitent;
That you affect; and so must you resolve,
Immortal gods, I crave no pelf;
DON
action. But, sweet Ned,--to sweeten which name of
Conferr'd by testament to the sequent issue,
From my cold heart let heaven engender hail,
With such a careless force and forceless care
Caesar, I never stood on ceremonies,
I see we still did meet each other's man,
No enigma, no riddle, no l'envoy; no salve in the
For this, be sure, to-night thou shalt have cramps,
His prayers are full of false hypocrisy;
Hath yoked a nation strong, train'd up in arms.
Ha! o' my life, if I were young again, the sword
Masters, play here; I will content your pains;
And learn to make a body of a limb.
been troubled with a pernicious suitor. I thank God
And I will sign it.
As yon grim looks do testify.
Ay, good now, love, love, nothing but love.
And play the humble host.
Why, do you not know him?
I'll prove this truth with my three drops of blood.
Stick to your journal course: the breach of custom
Dies
I came to serve a king and not a duke.
SCENE VI. Fields near Dover.
Must I speak now?
If knowledge be the mark, to know thee shall suffice;
Had not their bark been very slow of sail;
That I should do what I abhor to name,
Of such a winnow'd purity in love;
Together working with thy jealousies,
What's the noise?
safely be admitted.
Are words and poor conditions, but unseal'd,
To keep it builded, be the ram to batter
Who, certain of his fate, loves not his wronger;
The fire of rage is in him, and 'twere good
Thou hast done a deed whereat valour will weep.
hope thou didst feign.
Old feeble carrions and such suffering souls
Why look you still so stern and tragical?
Of noble minds is honourable meed.
I would not be a queen.
at home, I was in a better place: but travellers
I would the state of time had first been whole
O, hardness to dissemble!--
Even he, your wife, this lady, and myself,
Light, I say! light!
The wren with little quill,--
winds. The heavens continue their loves!
Why, my pretty youth?
What, what?
dish of some three-pence; your honours have seen
Sir, he is rash and very sudden in choler, and haply
gift is good in those in whom it is acute, and I am
Will bear up with this exercise, so long
herb-grace o' Sundays: O you must wear your rue with
Which, I beseech you, call a virtuous sin--
But even this night, whose black contagious breath
SCENE III. A public place.
Where we were lodgers at the Pegasus.
Betwixt the prince and beggar: I have said
beat us out of it, it is yours; if you fall in
trot as well, were some of your brags dismounted.
Their needless vouches? Custom calls me to't:
Who were those went by?
So vulgarly and personally accused,
The mighty dukes
No worse a husband than the best of men;
Had I the power that some say Dian had,
To do you service.
Did not I dance with you in Brabant once?
Oh, who shall hinder me to wail and weep,
that made the wings she flew withal.
'Tis neither here nor there.
Come on, away: apart upon our knees.
All these are saved if thou wilt fly away.
Had I but served my God with half the zeal
Stand back; room; bear back.
Ned, where are our disguises?
precious, precious jewels. I would my daughter
My lord, I have from Oxford sent to London
They confess
thou wouldst sin the faster. Thou givest so long,
No more.
Lysander, whereto tends all this?
Shall we disturb him, since he keeps no mean?
Come with a thought I thank thee, Ariel: come.
Like to the time o' the year between the extremes
To counsel deaf, but not to flattery!
For young hot colts being raged do rage the more.
If your pure maidens fall into the hand
For prisoners ask'st thou? hell our prison is.
An honourable trial.
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head,
not my sword; but take my pistol, if thou wilt.
When you are over-earnest with your Brutus,
And stick musk-roses in thy sleek smooth head,
It is a dropsied honour. Good alone
According to the which, thou shalt discourse
ACT V
I would not understand it.
Proceed.
You may go walk, and give me leave a while:
I charge thee, hence, and do not haunt me thus.
For him, and in his right, we hold this town.
And fight against that monstrous rebel Cade,
This love of theirs myself have often seen,
And not protract with admiration what
Exeunt
That doth sustain my house; you take my life
In this mutiny, the Tribunes, the AEdiles, and the People, are beat in
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
She'ld come again, and with a greedy ear
Thou liest, most ignorant monster: I am in case to
Hath she forsook so many noble matches,
And never gives to truth and virtue that
Though he have served a Roman: save him, sir,
Clapping their hands, and crying with loud voice,
SCENE II. Milan. Outside the DUKE's palace, under SILVIA's chamber.
what though? it will toast cheese, and it will
Than could his war resisted.
Because she will admit no kind of suit,
What have you now to present unto him?
Never durst poet touch a pen to write
Bestow your love and your affections
Thou camest--
What a drunken knave was the sea to cast thee in our
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
SCENE III. A royal palace.
This cloth thou dip'dst in blood of my sweet boy,
Withdraw you hence, my lord, I'll follow you.
I am not Barbason; you cannot conjure me. I have an
Lord Cerimon hath letters of good credit, sir,
Exit
Even as thou wilt, sweet Warwick, let it be;
Than you are mad; which is enough, I'll warrant,
That majesty, to keep decorum, must
His soul is so enfetter'd to her love,
Which, as thou know'st, unjustly must be spilt.
If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church,
ACT I
But these are all lies: men have died from time to
scratched face.
Exeunt
She's fled unto that peasant Valentine;
A young and learned doctor to our court.
What is thy name? I know thy quality.
So did you me, my liege.
Nor any of his false confederates.
Throbs to know one thing: tell me, if your art
As if an angel dropp'd down from the clouds,
And begin, 'Why to me?'
With all the effect of love.
Exeunt Serving-men, Mayor,  and c
Bring me word how tall she is. Pity me, Charmian,
That the time's enemies may not have this
Good sir, whose powers are these?
And thou shalt find that I exceed my sex.
Even at thy teat thou hadst thy tyranny.
you, he put it by once: but, for all that, to my
I flatter not; but say thou art a caitiff.
their letters to meet me in arms by the ninth of the
Re-speaking earthly thunder. Come away.
And why not the swift foot of Time? had not that
Cross-gartered!
What counsel, lords? Edward from Belgia,
Flourish of cornets. Enter the PRINCE OF MOROCCO  and his train; PORTIA, NERISSA, and others attending
I think it be, sir; I deny it not.
conference was sadly borne. They have the truth of
Where's Peaseblossom?
O sweet Sir John!
That he may furnish and instruct great teachers,
of. He left behind him myself and a sister, both
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue,
May worthy Troilus be half attach'd
They've not prepared for us.
Was Cassius born. Give me thy hand, Messala:
Exit
Who was enroll'd 'mongst wonders, and when we,
Almost no better than so many French;
Where is he wounded?
either to make him a garland, as being forsaken, or
not impossible to me, if it appear not inconvenient
The mouth of passage shall we fling wide ope,
He was as rattling thunder. For his bounty,
thou what thou art, by art as well as by nature:
Know, my name is lost;
Say 'a day,' without the 'ever.' No, no, Orlando;
Cannot but yield you forth to public thanks,
Hadst thou been kill'd when first thou didst presume,
Epistrophus and Cedius: Polyxenes is slain,
Go take it hence; be gone, and say no more.
And give them title, knee and approbation
Or else misgraffed in respect of years,--
The multiplying villanies of nature
Here will I sit before the walls of Rouen
ACT III
Even in the lusty havior of his son.
I was about to tell thee:--when my heart,
And all the peers and nobles of the realm
By gar, de herring is no dead so as I vill kill him.
And duty bids defend; the other again
I have sat too long.
I know not what to say: but give me your hands;
I thrice presented him a kingly crown,
Mark'd ye his words? He would not take the crown;
SCENE III. OLIVIA'S house.
Speak, brother, hast thou hurt thee with the fall?
Where thou shalt live, till we can find a time
To hang Cordelia in the prison, and
The sheriff and all the watch are at the door: they
Exeunt
An I had but one penny in the world, thou shouldst
Steep'd me in poverty to the very lips,
The fish lives in the sea, and 'tis much pride
Do not, for one repulse, forego the purpose
Another general shout!
How now! what news?
And fly would Talbot never, though he might.
brazed to it.
You grow exceeding strange: must it be so?
Let me ne'er hope to see a chine again
Turn back and fly, like ships before the wind
I speak too loud.
Why hast thou slain thine only daughter thus?
To beg of you, kind friends, this coat of worth,
In brief, we are the king of England's subjects:
Your hand, Salerio: what's the news from Venice?
de son mauvais, corruptible, gros, et impudique, et
Some that will thank you, making just report
We must bear all. O hard condition,
climb in the merriness.
True,
Look there, look there!
The worst is death, and death will have his day.
To our own selves bend we our needful talk.
That could not live asunder day or night.
All comfort, joy, in this most gracious lady,
Of my lord general.
How or which way: 'tis sure they found some place
As near as I could sift him on that argument,
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
Cobloaf!
No better than a sty? O, see, my women,
And take your ring again; 'tis not yet won:
Have power to bid you welcome. By your leave,
To reach at victory above my head,
These three world-sharers, these competitors,
For wheresoe'er thou art in this world's globe,
Oui, dat de tongues of de mans is be full of
Thy beauty hath, and made them blind with weeping.
The clock gives me my cue, and my assurance bids me
Go, Pindarus, get higher on that hill;
And give to dust that is a little gilt
RICHARD
The dauntless spirit of resolution.
Why, sir, a carpenter.
Come to great confusion:
Have practised dangerously against your state,
better man than I am?
Of horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd
The arbitrement is like to be bloody. Fare you
Yes, my lord;
But William of Hatfield died without an heir.
Had circumvention? 'Tis not four days gone
And not provoked by any suitor else;
Take it, and do't; and leave me for this time.
Now he denies it faintly, and laughs it out.
make her fault her husband's occasion, let her
Go to, go to, thou art a foolish fellow:
get this foolish Imogen, I should have gold enough.
And by herself, I will not tell you whose.
The truth of this appear. Prepare you, lords;
As sense cannot untie. Be what it is,
Name her not now, sir; she's a deadly theme.
I find at such proud rate, that it out-speaks
He is not yet arrived: nor know I aught
What says he?
Enter CAMILLO and ARCHIDAMUS
Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech;
SCENE V. Another part of the plains.
Valentine?
Dispatch us with all speed, lest that our king
They lay hands on YORK, who struggles
Stand by and mark the manner of his teaching.
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
What is't o'clock?
No, sir; he stays for you to conduct him thither.
And flashing fire will follow.
Not I; unless the breath of heartsick groans,
Talk not of standing. Publius, good cheer;
We pray the gods he may deserve your loves.
the porter let in Susan Grindstone and Nell.
Enter REGAN and OSWALD
to him, it's all one: by God's lid, it does one's
King did I call thee? no, thou art not king,
Mazed with a yelping kennel of French curs!
That thus you do exclaim you'll go with him?
Thou crossest me? what honour dost thou seek
Why, I am sure, if he forfeit, thou wilt not take
To have begg'd or bought what I have took:
O for your reason! quickly, sir; I long.
For which I do discharge you of your office:
But in the gross and scope of my opinion,
For, by the sacred radiance of the sun,
If she be so abandon'd to her sorrow
Ah, were the Duke of Suffolk now alive,
Lavinia, thou shalt be employ'd: these arms!
hanged, and then to confess.--I tremble at it.
Was he not held a learned man?
of three several deaths; first, an intolerable
Pyramus draws near the wall: silence!
Exeunt
Peace!
Their powers are marching unto Paris-ward.
Where are they?
To instruct her fully in those sciences,
Though justice be thy plea, consider this,
Give me a staff of honour for mine age,
What they are used to bear.
The Dauphin crowned king! all fly to him!
Exeunt; those above bearing off MARK ANTONY's body
Give me the cup: let go; by heaven, I'll have't.
Fill till the cup be hid.
To your notorious shame; I doubt it not.
the soldier than in the scholar.
Thy napkin cannot drink a tear of mine,
Alas, how then?
What, John Rugby! I pray thee, go to the casement,
Or image of that horror?
To breakfast once forth of my company.
hope, sir, if you thrive, you'll remember from
And then is heard no more: it is a tale
Let him bless thee too.
Extremely stretch'd and conn'd with cruel pain,
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
Surely I do believe your fair cousin is wronged.
I like that well: nay, how absolute she's in't,
And that beyond commission, and I find it,
In Isbel's case and mine own. Service is no
Imogen, Imogen!
Will catch at us, like strumpets; and scald rhymers
Where have I been? Where am I? Fair daylight?
herself swore th' other day, that Troilus, for
Butchers and villains! bloody cannibals!
For it is you that have chalk'd forth the way
Bid him encamp his soldiers where they are:
Your mind is tossing on the ocean;
You have it full, Benedick: we may guess by this
Stand thee close, then, under this pent-house, for
to be turned away, is not that as good as a hanging to you?
How! know you where you are?
Grief of my son's exile hath stopp'd her breath:
Exeunt all but PERICLES
What thou art promised: yet do I fear thy nature;
I caused you write, yet sent away?
Under our tents I'll play the eaves-dropper,
something to do with you. Come, you're a young
Hold you his hands, whilst I do set it on.
So please you, this friar hath been with him, and
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
Kind gentlemen, let's go see poor Cassio dress'd.
Even to the very quality of my lord:
Nay, she is worse, she is the devil's dam; and here
I then do most go right.
Rankly abused: but know, thou noble youth,
Were not erected by their hands from whom
Hold, there's half my coffer.
thus. They will scarcely believe this without trial:
should so dote on Signior Benedick, whom she hath in
should buy first, as if my trinkets had been
I had as lief not be as live to be
O Signieur Dew, thou diest on point of fox,
Thou liest.
of fear and cold heart, will he to the king and lay
That done, repair to Pompey's theatre.
I have toward heaven breathed a secret vow
That need must needs infer this principle,
That look not like the inhabitants o' the earth,
And, gentle master, I received no gold;
see him a man.
warrant for it: it hath not moved him at all.
Or been reguerdon'd with so much as thanks,
Of what is to continue: never mind
Leaving thy trunk for crows to feed upon.
Here standeth Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
A sequester from liberty, fasting and prayer,
your remedy.
And, like a shifted wind unto a sail,
Taken to wife: nor have we herein barr'd
Exit
A deed might gain her love or your displeasure.
it in practise. Be cunning in the working this, and
Happy be Theseus, our renowned duke!
Study knows that which yet it doth not know:
NYM and PISTOL draw
Thou hast not loved:
If my observation, which very seldom lies,
Prayers and tears have moved me, gifts could never.
Will give thee time to leave our royal court,
Three times they breathed and three times did
Your well defended honour, you must pardon
Three thousand ducats; 'tis a good round sum.
That many have and others must sit there;
I wish my brother make good time with him,
Soft and fair, friar. Which is Beatrice?
Exit
And that's a wonder: fathers commonly
O noble Caesar!
And save poor me, the weaker.
Than hate of Eglamour that goes with her.
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
Is on the life of Lear and on Cordelia:
Suspect me, that I mean no good to him:
For depravation, to square the general sex
So thou destroy Rapine and Murder there.
How now!
Soon fall to ruin,--your noble self,
Cool and congeal again to what it was.
Noblest of men, woo't die?
I cannot blame him: was not he proclaim'd
child or pupil, undertake your ben venuto; where I
And my poor fool is hang'd! No, no, no life!
To VARRO
Not one accompanying his declining foot.
And there I am. Where is my Romeo?
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
Should grieve thee more than streams of foreign gore:
If Gloucester be displaced, he'll be protector.
Her injury the beadle to her sin,
O, full of danger is the Duke of Gloucester!
daughter: yet he knew me not at first; he said I
And so his peers, upon this evidence,
Still did I tell him it was vile and bad.
My love, without retention or restraint,
Come, sisters, cheer we up his sprites,
That keep this dreadful pother o'er our heads,
Now, good Lafeu,
Is all your strict preciseness come to this?
Qui va la?
[Aside]  As many inches as you have oceans. Puppies!
am a Jew, if I serve the Jew any longer.
Under these windows, white and azure laced
Some troops pursue the bloody-minded queen,
it loathes.
simpleness; she derives her honesty and achieves her goodness.
We'll fall to it with our teeth.
Where is thy master, Dromio? is he well?
God in thy good cause make thee prosperous!
The revenue whereof shall furnish us
No, good swabber; I am to hull here a little
sick, or angry?
Of him that brought them.
Ladies and maids their scarfs and handkerchers,
Did ere solicit, or my hand subscribe
And so to Tripoli, if God lend me life.
In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly:
The king hath straitly charged the contrary.
Which rottenness can lend nature! such boil'd stuff
Did ever in so true a flame of liking
Exit DOLABELLA
And leave them honeyless.
You are their heir; you sit upon their throne;
us, do we not die? and if you wrong us, shall we not
Linger your patience on; and we'll digest
I'll tell thee what, prince; a college of
[Behind]  O, I am slain!
It waves me forth again: I'll follow it.
I wear no knife to slaughter sleeping men;
The king doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
And am I thus rewarded? 'tis not well, lords.
Is Banquo gone from court?
Ambitious York doth level at thy crown,
Affront Ophelia:
And her to whom my thoughts are humbled all,
Shout. Trumpets flourish
Her silver visage in the watery glass,
Their mediation; must I be unfolded
Now, forward with your tale. Prithee, stand farther
If his chief good and market of his time
If he dislike it, let him to our sister,
[Aside]  If that go forward, Henry's hope is done.
Mean you his majesty?
But, for your son,--believe it, O, believe it,
frailty. You confess then, you picked my pocket?
Some say he's mad; others that lesser hate him
Suggested us to make. Therefore, ladies,
And, notwithstanding all this loss of blood,
Undaunted spirit in a dying breast!
Go bid thy master well advise himself:
If guilty dread have left thee so much strength
the rejoicing?
Thou shalt be heavily punished.
His honour and myself are at the one,
only numbers ratified; but, for the elegancy,
Like lies disdain'd in the reporting.
lief you would tell me of a mess of porridge.
To spend that shortness basely were too long,
revenue: then your hose should be ungartered, your
Persuaded him from any further act:
In characters,
What, did he marry me to famish me?
As many vouched rarities are.
That winter lion, who in rage forgets
What, hath your grace no better company?
I love thee so, that, maugre all thy pride,
Throng'd to!
That their negotiations all must slack,
The eldest son and heir of John of Gaunt,
call. Bully knight! bully Sir John! speak from
O, learn'd indeed were that astronomer
Fit to be made companion with a king:
Ay, boy.
are forfeited to me, and my honour's paid to him. He
An unauthorized kiss.
I can with ease translate it to my will;
Methoughts that I had broken from the Tower,
The rest--hark in thine ear--as black as incest:
Did you beg any? God forbid!
He did incline to sadness, and oft-times
And all by thee. Away! convey him hence.
Mend 'em, for shame, my lords. Is this your comfort?
'Tide life, 'tide death, I come without delay.
Good day, my lord. What, at your book so hard?
I looked for the chalky cliffs, but I could find no
Shall satisfy your father.
It is so too: and have not we affections,
Thy virtues spoke of, and thy beauty sounded,
I would I had not known him; it was the death of the
For one commanding all, obey'd of none.
Have done me shame: brave soldier, pardon me,
And made a push at chance and sufferance.
Yet once again proclaim it publicly,
For never was a story of more woe
What is thy sentence then but speechless death,
thee thine own goodness hath made; better not to
What is your will?
Thrice noble lord, let me entreat of you
In doing wrong extenuates not wrong,
Who is that calls so coldly?
Have I in such a prison.
If I do lose thee, I do lose a thing
Of angry eyes, not comforted to live,
That yet you do not know. Fie on this storm!
Thou hast most kindly hit it.
My lord, no leave take I; for I will ride,
Have all limed bushes to betray thy wings,
They only now come but to feast thine eyes.
what they travail for, if it be a just true report
In the same time 'tis made? I will not.
If we did think
declined, Singulariter, nominativo, hic, haec, hoc.
which oft the ear of greatness needs must hear,
The seal I keep: and so betide to me
I'll hunt with him; and let them be received,
I would have him poison'd with a pot of ale.
not what I seek, show no colour for my extremity; let
So will it, madam till I lie with you.
Amen.
Sir, by your patience,
All hid, all hid; an old infant play.
Which by my presence might have been concluded.
He would have dropp'd his knife, and fell asleep
The noisome weeds, which without profit suck
My weaved-up folly? Gentle Northumberland,
With all my heart; and it doth much content me
My lady's father.
Not much commendation to them.
I do assure thee, father, so it is.
to the goose, proves thee far and wide a broad goose.
I am so angry at these abject terms;
The wise man's folly is anatomized
All covered dishes!
Enter Gentleman
Lay all the weight ye can upon my patience,
Little are we beholding to your love,
and I'll be merry in my revenge.
No more, great empress; Bassianus comes:
Your comfort makes the rescue.
May now perchance both quake and tremble here,
O, my good knave Costard! exceedingly well met.
And this ditty, after me,
Sweet, sweet, sweet poison for the age's tooth:
As chimney-sweepers, come to dust.
proclaimed. All offices are open, and there is full
Does the world go round?
Shall now, in mutual well-beseeming ranks,
And ne'er throughout the year to church thou go'st
the provost.
He little thought of this divided friendship:
To give us warrant from the hand of heaven
And wouldst thou turn our offers contrary?
O sir, we quarrel in print, by the book; as you have
Her son into the adoption of the crown:
Thunder. Third Apparition: a Child crowned, with a tree in his hand
Whom the blind waves and surges have devour'd.
I cry thee mercy:
and, he returning to break our necks, they respect not us.
Here's the lord of the soil come to seize me for a
Enter ACHILLES
Here, in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
now, come apace to the king: there is more good
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
Enter TITUS dressed like a Cook, LAVINIA veiled,  Young LUCIUS, and others. TITUS places the dishes on the table
dissembling luxurious drab, of a sleeveless errand.
The empress sends it thee, thy stamp, thy seal,
Which is the high and mighty Agamemnon?
Paris should ne'er retract what he hath done,
And in his ear I'll holla 'Mortimer!'
Fortune had left to both of us alike
By water shall he die, and take his end.
And let the angel whom thou still hast served
The king's disease--my project may deceive me,
Than hands or tongue, her spotless chastity,
But she tells to your highness simple truth!
Above a twelvemonth. I have within my mind
For loving where you do: but if yourself,
Sent from a sort of tinkers to the king.
Exeunt
of Ephesus attending.
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
Even he that did uphold the very life
Bar Harry England, that sweeps through our land
In what part of her body stands Ireland?
For thy escape would teach me tyranny,
That, being mad herself, she's madly mated.
Mort de ma vie! all is confounded, all!
Sir, have pity;
And grating shock of wrathful iron arms,
Be not afraid that I your hand should take;
The party is gone, fellow Hector, she is gone; she
The king is moved, and answers not to this.
As well a woman with an eunuch play'd
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly;
lovers speak of.
If you will now unite in your complaints,
And, like a thief, to come to rob my grounds,
But love, first learned in a lady's eyes,
The most you sought was her promotion;
Out of the host; I must attend mine office,
Be not so long to speak; I long to die,
As benefits to thee, for I will fight
I might in virtue, beauties, livings, friends,
O heavenly Julia!
Of all base passions, fear is most accursed.
cardinally given, might have been accused in
Work thou the way,--and thou shalt execute.
Our father's tears despised, and basely cozen'd
Fetch me the handkerchief: my mind misgives.
Men daily find it. Get thee away, and take
He finds himself beholding to us all.
displeasure, neither to speak of him, entreat for
In the main battle, whose puissance on either side
Had borne the action of yourself, or else
Which on your just proceeding I'll keep off,
You little Jack-a-Lent, have you been true to us?
For aught I know, my lord, they do.
Methinks I should know you, and know this man;
While Gloucester bears this base and humble mind.
Enter Page
Is very good meat in lent
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
confess it brokenly with your English tongue. Do
Thy buried fear: herein all breathless lies
Alarum. Enter MARK ANTONY, in a march; SCARUS, with others
When he is fit and season'd for his passage?
For sorrow's eye, glazed with blinding tears,
Thus do I hope to shake King Henry's head.
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, Lords and Attendants
Be stomachers to my heart. Thus may poor fools
I have spoke the truth.
Whom stripes may move, not kindness! I have used thee,
As we were sharing, some six or seven fresh men set upon us--
In faith, too much;
Be great in act, as you have been in thought;
Let's reinforce, or fly.
all this while? You a lover! An you serve me such
It is most retrograde to our desire:
Whether hadst thou rather be a Faulconbridge
village, who hath promised to meet me in this place
two brace of greyhounds.
The narrow-prying father, Minola,
At my depart, these were his very words:
Some say, that though she appear honest to me, yet in
ACT II
Will bless the king: and is not this course pious?
What is it then to me, if impious war,
honesty; my mask, to defend my beauty; and you, to
Ay, all of them at Bristol lost their heads.
Must wear your spirits low; we cannot help it:
I was seven of the nine days out of the wonder
Lucius, I'll fit thee; and withal, my boy,
My mind is changed, sir, my mind is changed.
Say you the like to him?
There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news:
but from proof as strong as my grief and as certain
Of this oppressed boy: this is thy eld'st son's son,
As for that heinous tiger, Tamora,
Exeunt Young LUCIUS, and Attendant
O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too
Good night.
You would desire the king were made a prelate:
Not only my success in Libya, sir,
Yes. Has he affections in him,
Enter BERTRAM and the two French Lords
He sent to me, sir,--Here he comes.
Had I before known this young man his son,
Ay, by my beard, will we, for he's a proper man.
To feed my innocent people.
So he says here.
Aloud
Alone I fought in your Corioli walls,
With what thou else call'st thine. If thou refuse
O, I am slain!
To his great master; who, thereat enraged,
To SILVIUS
O you immortal gods! I will not go.
And at the port expect you.
Cannot be seen or heard: do but look up.
May I never
For why my bowels cannot hide her woes,
I shall do well:
Without assistance.
Vell.
Can her contempt be answer'd?
Enter Sir William LUCY
And three or four more of their growth we'll dress
Savagely slaughter'd: to relate the manner,
Upon this business my appearance make
SCENE II. Before LEONTES' palace.
We will aboard to night. Why, how now, gentlemen!
In bed he slept not for my urging it;
You shall see.
Shall I do such a deed?
and I rob the thieves and go merrily to London, it
Why then my taxing like a wild-goose flies,
SCENE IV. Milan. The DUKE's palace.
I had rather heat my liver with drinking.
And as imagination bodies forth
Enter PAGE, FORD, MISTRESS PAGE, and MISTRESS FORD
Didst speak him fair?
And rail'd on Lady Fortune in good terms,
This is his lordship's man.
They sound a parley. Enter two Senators with others on the walls
As benefits forgot:
But now I am past an comforts here, but prayers.
By underhand corrupted foul injustice,
I mean, that with my soul I love thy daughter,
With too much urging your pernicious lives,
The fairest I have yet beheld, desires access
Possess us, possess us; tell us something of him.
Exeunt severally
A bitter fool!
To achieve her! how?
I feel my heart new open'd. O, how wretched
Hath an aspect of intercession, which
To VALERIA
very merry; but yet she is not well: but thanks be
Begin to chase the ignorant fumes that mantle
Hear from me still, and never of me aught
At that sad stop, my lord,
As Hector pleases.
so the third. Yonder they lie; the poor old man,
He told me Paris should have married Juliet:
That metal, that self-mould, that fashion'd thee
Have done offence, I take the fault on me:
Come, come, to the purpose: did he love this woman?
Thy friend no less
Shall never find it more.
Or do your honour injury.
Is it his use?
When Roscius was an actor in Rome,--
As low as to thy foot doth Cassius fall,
court, the women so besiege us? Bless me, what a
well, sir.
That you know aught of me: this not to do,
And for his sake I wish the having of it;
For Jesu Christ in glorious Christian field,
executioner, who in his office lacks a helper: if
Renowned Lucius, from our troops I stray'd
Sweet widow, by my state I swear to thee
The blessed gods
Who hath indeed, most like a liberal villain,
worship's a wanton! Well, heaven forgive you and all
The earldom of Hereford and the moveables
In aid whereof we of the spiritualty
Wherein we step after a stranger march
What's here?
'cuckoo' never so?
And glow with shame of your proceedings, Hubert:
With twenty trenched gashes on his head;
Breathe foul contagious darkness in the air.
Which made me down to throw my books, and fly--
O slaves, I can tell you news,-- news, you rascals!
No, I am a Welshman.
And to make a sweet lady sad is a sour offence.
A nobleness in record: but I will be
That Margaret your queen and my son Edward
To let these hands obey my blood,
And know it now: the senate have concluded
The name of Cassius honours this corruption,
Then feeling what small things are boisterous there,
Enter DIONYZA and LEONINE
will die, if he love her not, and she will die, ere
Sends me a paper to persuade me patience?
That he cried out, 'twould be a sight indeed,
With their refusal, both observe and answer
Come, thou shalt bear a letter to him straight.
Pray heavens he be;
earl or duke, I can assure you.
Hast thou met with him? Send thy man away.
He gave to Alexander; to Ptolemy he assign'd
lopped branches, which, being dead many years,
He calls us back: my pride fell with my fortunes;
That, out of mere ambition, you have caused
For which I wait for money.
Of the last monarchy,--see that you come
Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes
Still and contemplative in living art.
As strongly as the conscience does within,
'GONERIL.'
The devil take Henry of Lancaster and thee!
And sight of men.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
All hell shall stir for this.
Am I the motive of these tears, my lord?
Faith there's a dozen of 'em, with delicate fine
That they of Rome are entered in our counsels
Expell'd remorse and nature; who, with Sebastian,
As he hath used of old.
Exit
To-day in our young lords; but they may jest
Here is a thing too young for such a place,
Stark, as you see:
I would land-damn him. Be she honour-flaw'd,
In feeding them with those my former fortunes
And I'll go seek the duke: his banquet is prepared.
Learn more than thou trowest,
To verify our title with their lives.
Not a flower, not a flower sweet
Who shall be of as little memory
of invention: taunt him with the licence of ink:
You to your former honour I bequeath;
To love fair Silvia, shall I be forsworn;
Re-enter SIR TOBY BELCH and FABIAN
sigh till he come.
As a friend or an enemy?
What, frighted with false fire!
We shall have shortly discord in the spheres.
Come here for physic.
See how this river comes me cranking in,
Fell slaughter on their souls. Heaven rest them now!
Even as the waving sedges play with wind.
Jack Rugby, he is dead already, if he be come.
Grown to this faction in the Temple-garden,
And brought us thus together?
You of your wife and me of my consent,
In England
Here have we war for war and blood for blood,
Enter Poet, followed by LUCILIUS, TITINIUS, and LUCIUS
That downward hath succeeded in his house
Is't not enough thou hast suborn'd these women
speak with you.
To bloody thoughts and to revenge, I chose
Fetch forth the stocks!
offence herein too, I durst attempt it against any
Point to rich ends. This my mean task
That the bruised heart was pierced through the ear.
Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb,
I have seen tempests, when the scolding winds
The king my uncle is to blame for this:
He cares not; he'll obey conditions.
What custom wills, in all things should we do't,
There is no leprosy but what thou speak'st.
friends, it shall be so far forth friendly
Wherewith I reign'd? I hardly yet have learn'd
And if I have a co nscience, let it sink me,
And humbly beg the death upon my knee.
Ay, but thou canst do what I mean to ask.
Set foot under thy table: tut, a toy!
Grim-visaged war hath smooth'd his wrinkled front;
She hath good leave.
called before us. Away with her to prison! Go to;
Without the rack.
you, to go in the song?
Where may we set our horses?
To let him spend his time no more at home,
As 'twere in love's particular, be more
Give me some ink and paper in my tent
I have more cause to hate him than to love him:
Away, I say; thou shalt know more hereafter:
In him that did object the same to thee;
Pardon, my liege, that I have stay'd so long.
Set fire on barns and hay-stacks in the night,
I am glad he's come, howsoe'er he comes.
Yet, I remember, when I was in France,
This prison where I live unto the world:
Come, to this gear. You are a good archer, Marcus;
Enter QUEEN, BUSHY, and BAGOT
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands
call fair. She is drowned already, sir, with salt
When went there by an age, since the great flood,
From morn till night, out of his pavilion.
Even or odd, of all days in the year,
And hath in his effect a voice potential
You are light into my hands, where you are like to live.
I am glad, though you have ta'en a special stand to
That knit your sinews to the strength of mine.
To appease their groaning shadows that are gone.
The wrong I did myself; which was so much,
Confess thy treasons ere thou fly the realm;
This is but a custom in your tongue; you bear a
Hast thou denied thyself a Faulconbridge?
On thy low grave, on faults forgiven. Dead
That's the letter I writ to her friend.
How nice the quarrel was, and urged withal
SCENE II. The same. Another street.
Were now the general of our gracious empress,
Suffolk first died: and York, all haggled over,
Whose dismal tune bereft my vital powers;
keep my hand dry. But what's your jest?
That should but rive an oak. Why dost not speak?
Plenty and peace breeds cowards: hardness ever
The castle of Macduff I will surprise;
Sister, you'll go with us?
But with a little act upon the blood.
Eight thousand and four hundred; of the which,
Villains, you did not so, when your vile daggers
Are servanted to others: though I owe
My gracious lord, entreat him, speak him fair.
Let me say no, my liege, an if you please:
But you have all the vantage of her wrong.
Exeunt Host and BARDOLPH
So thou, my surfeit and my heresy,
seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue
At Pembroke, or at Harford-west, in Wales.
For once the eagle England being in prey,
Things that do sound so fair? I' the name of truth,
It may be so: if he have robb'd these men,
Which so appearing to the common eyes,
Is it for him you do envy me so?
When I shall pray, 'O bless my lord and husband!'
You should not have the eminence of him,
His broken promise, and to give this napkin
With him;
Which ne'er came from the lungs, but even thus--
I cannot choose
Pardon me, gracious lord;
Give me thy hand; come on.
Like to a tenement or pelting farm:
Adjudged an olive branch and laurel crown,
you'll have your nephews neigh to you; you'll have
This Lodovico is a proper man.
Let them go on;
Even this.
Whether till the next night she had rather stay,
If not, shun me, and I will spare your haunts.
That jack-an-apes with scarfs: why is he melancholy?
The elder of them, being put to nurse,
Thy gory locks at me.
I'll attend your lordship.
But with our sword we wiped away the blot;
But what your jealousies awake, I tell you
'Twas I that gave the kingdom to thy brother.
You may have every day enough of Hector
Leontes opening his free arms and weeping
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, DOUGLAS, and VERNON
before, these weird sisters saluted me, and referred
And keep it from the earth.
Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
Even this repays me. We sent our schoolmaster;
heart-strings.
Ah, who is nigh? come to me, friend or foe,
To make perfumes? distil? preserve? yea, so
And overlooks the highest-peering hills;
With that she sighed as she stood,
This prince hath neither claim'd it nor deserved it;
instruct her in it and compel her to some second
You lie out on't, sir, and therefore it is not
I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul.
Never to speak to lady afterward
By the exaction of the forfeiture?
universal world, or in France, or in England!
A counsellor, a traitress, and a dear;
And crown what I profess with kind event
Who sitting in the stocks refuge their shame,
accent: let me supervise the canzonet. Here are
And thorough this distemperature we see
O, that's the Latin word for three farthings: three
the house: and, Falstaff, you carried your guts
That's certain, if the devil may be her judge.
And never be Bassanio so for me:
And vice sometimes by action dignified.
the benefit of his dying, a place in the
The Briton reveller.
By heaven, fond wretch, thou knowist not what thou speak'st,
Rely upon it till my tale be heard,
Come, come, be every one officious
As he is famed for mildness, peace, and prayer.
And yet you halt not.
That both should speed?
And what I want it boots not to complain.
Fortune and I are friends: I do enjoy
The sides of loyalty, and almost appears
Ay, so the turn were served.
no-verbs. Give me thy hand, terrestrial; so. Give me
Well, say, sir.
Give your men the charge; we must be brief.
I give it you.
For Edward, for my brother, for his sake: Why, sirs,
No, believe me.
CRANMER enters and approaches the council-table
Such a one, they all confess,
You shall be yet far fairer than you are.
Sir, the maid loves you, and all shall be well. We
That bears recovery's name. But, since your kindness
That highly may advantage thee to hear:
As bondage e'er of freedom: here's my hand.
thought a good student; but to be said an honest man
Well held out, i' faith! No, I do not know you; nor
Lorenzo, certain, and my love indeed,
The first service thou dost me, fetch that suit
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
Harry, how fares your uncle?
The city is well stored.
more of you to myself than you can with modesty
Which of you have done this?
Nay, he's a thief too: have you not heard men say
Pray you, without any more virginal fencing, will
The thane of Cawdor lives: why do you dress me
The preyful princess pierced and prick'd a pretty
porpus how he bounced and tumbled? they say
My father hath set guard to take my brother;
To see this sight, it irks my very soul.
To do the act that might the addition earn
With silence, nephew, be thou politic:
No rescue? What, a prisoner? I am even
Good my lord!
will have the heart of him, if he forfeit; for, were
Which sways usurpingly these several titles,
But I pray you, ergo, old man, ergo, I beseech you,
In him that should compare. I do not think
I not desire to know. Follow thy drum;
Upon what ground is his distemperature?
Enter a Servant
life, but in respect that it is a shepherd's life,
will prove those verses to be very unlearned,
Bad child; worse father! to entice his own
A' would have ten shares.
Whispers
That any did. Had we pursued that life,
Then thus:
How do you? What's the news?
On your attendance, my lord; here.
Thou whoreson, senseless villain!
I' the absence of the needer.
Will you sup there?
Touches his friend, which craves to be remember'd
Come not to me again: but say to Athens,
ANTIPHOLUS
for mine honour, and have respect to mine honour, that
Wrapp'd in sweet clothes, rings put upon his fingers,
Cannot amount unto a hundred marks;
Why then you are utterly shamed, and he's but a dead
What is the news?
For husband shalt thou--
Is once to be resolved: exchange me for a goat,
As a friend.
That I desire to hear her speak again,
Of whom so often I have heard renown,
Would God that any in this noble presence
Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you.
Rejoice, you men of Angiers, ring your bells:
If he suppose that I have pleaded truth,
Enter BUSHY
Yes, madam, and moreover
It is reported thou didst eat strange flesh,
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets:
Nay, for methought yesterday your mistress shrewdly
less reason. Let us be conjunctive in our revenge
With torch-staves in their hand; and their poor jades
Poor Tom shall lead thee.
Why, Hal, thou knowest, as thou art but man, I dare:
A shrewd turn, if she pleased.
Exit
Nor thou within the compass of my curse.
You,'--or 'I would request you,'--or 'I would
They lose it that do buy it with much care:
Surprise her with discourse of my dear faith:
[Aside]  Nay, John, it will be stinking law for his
A wise stout captain, and soon persuaded!
will keep no fool, sir, till she be married; and
All the water in Wye cannot wash your majesty's
Patricians and plebeians, we create
over and over as my poor self in love. Marry, I
What, Grumio!
No bond but to do just ones. Gods! if you
Without a heart to dare or sword to draw
For the letter that begins them all, H.
Will soon recover his accustom'd health.
And so it shall be so for Katharina.
My people did expect my hence departure
Your sweet dependency; and you shall find
Ere you had spoke so far. He led our powers;
But since your falsehood shall become you well
strange dishes. May I be so converted and see with
O, sir, you must: and therefore I beseech you
Were it the mistress-court of mighty Europe:
To plague thee for thy foul misleading me.
ANTIPHOLUS
To LODOVICO and GRATIANO
My husband is on earth, my faith in heaven;
ACT I
Edward's seven sons, whereof thyself art one,
Re-enter MARK ANTONY and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
But touch this sparingly, as 'twere far off,
Yea, marry, dost thou hear, Balthasar? I pray thee,
One flourishing branch of his most royal root,
Or, guilty in defence, be thus destroy'd?
That Henry liveth still: but were he dead,
So come my soul to bliss, as I speak true;
When I, thy three-hours wife, have mangled it?
All that is virtuous, save what thou dislikest,
Gripe not at earthly joys as erst they did;
Appear in forms more horrid,--yet my duty,
Who marvels then, when Helenus beholds
And hum at good Cominius, much unhearts me.
Will you help? an ass-head and a coxcomb and a
He makes a July's day short as December,
Enter PROTEUS
Upon the crown o' the cliff, what thing was that
Dead Caesar's trencher; nay, you were a fragment
Thou art the cause, and most accursed effect.
Of many a bold one; whose kinsmen have made suit
And turn'd that black word death to banishment:
Which busy care draws in the brains of men;
This was strange chance
You would have them always play but one thing?
Made hard with hourly falsehood--falsehood, as
Concerning the French journey: I replied,
Where honeysuckles, ripen'd by the sun,
you are mine, I am yours: I give away myself for
Sir, if you'ld save your life, fly to your house:
Into strong shudders and to heavenly agues
iniquity, stealing away from his father with his
He loses hearts: Lepidus flatters both,
heats me with beating; when I am warm, he cools me
To give me conquer'd Egypt for my son,
And we are women's men.
But, would you undertake another suit,
No more of that.
him.
'Ad Martem,' that's for myself:
My love can give no place, bide no denay.
Of his wings destitute, the army broken,
Only the adulterous Antony, most large
Ay, with a twink.
And hither shall he come: and he and I
the one maintained by the owl, the other by the
The bloody proclamation to escape,
That I may compass yours.
Eating the flesh that she herself hath bred.
May be he tells you true.
Walks, like contempt, alone. More of our fellows.
Enter LADY CAPULET
As you were fore-advised, had touch'd his spirit
Who, my master?
And that she hath all courtly parts more exquisite
SCENE II. The same. A hall in Timon's house.
In Caesar's name pronounce I 'gainst thee: look
Well, if ever I do see the merry days of desolation
I say it is the moon that shines so bright.
He is a great observer and he looks
Now one the better, then another best;
thy tongue tang arguments of state; put thyself into
What lawful quest have given their verdict up
And wide unclasp the tables of their thoughts
Benvolio, who began this bloody fray?
Thou weep'st, and speak'st.
And cry out for thee to close up mine eyes,
If after every tempest come such calms,
if not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd hits.
I will be with thee straight.
And if we did but glance a far-off look,
'Twas I, indeed, thou promised'st to strike;
That trusted home
His business more material.
nuncle, and I'll give thee two crowns.
He's truly valiant that can wisely suffer
In such a time as this it is not meet
Wherein I had no stroke of mischief in it?
I am constant to my purpose; they follow the king's
With such austerity as 'longeth to a father.
Pyramus is not killed indeed; and, for the more
Made in her concave shores?
Stoop, then, and wash. How many ages hence
but little happy, if I could say how much. Lady, as
Villain, thou mightst have been an emperor:
Than lying, vainness, babbling, drunkenness,
Let's follow, Gertrude:
continency; sparrows must not build in his
Grew fat with feasting there.
God bless my ladies! are they all in love,
Content, my liege! yes, but that I am prevented,
Even in your hearts, there will he rake for it:
For our enemies shall fall before us, inspired with
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
And yet I was last chidden for being too slow.
And lay it by: the angry northern wind
Such water-colours to impaint his cause;
As dreams are made on, and our little life
Exeunt Ladies
Good cousin, be advised; stir not tonight.
Each way and move. I take my leave of you:
Since riches point to misery and contempt?
No, sir, she shall not, though you take her part.
Will you bestow them friendly on Andronicus?
They must take it in sense that feel it.
O heavens! is't possible, a young maid's wits
Not unaccompanied invest him only,
Having first seized his books, or with a log
The shadow or your face.
them; item, one neck, one chin, and so forth. Were
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
to be drowned and go without her.
My lord, your sorrow was too sore laid on,
But more of this hereafter. You, Diana,
I'll once more feast the rascals.
SCENE III. A room in the Garter Inn.
Outvenoms all the worms of Nile, whose breath
this head off from my shoulders.
As surfeit is the father of much fast,
Varro's Servants	And ours, my lord.
My utmost skill in his recovery, Provided
To be so anger'd with another letter.
Than I am able to instruct or teach:
Of all the trades in Rome. Look, I am going:
I do present you with a man of mine,
His face I know not.
Get you gone, sirrah.
To fetch his daughter home, who first is gone.
Any exploit worthy the name of honour.
Banish'd this frail sepulchre of our flesh,
I am no traitor's uncle; and that word 'grace.'
And we of thee: so if the time thrust forth
Iago? O, I am spoil'd, undone by villains!
Lucius, Lucullus, and Sempronius:
A poor Egyptian yet. The queen my mistress,
Enter DOGBERRY, VERGES, and the Watch, with CONRADE and BORACHIO
Will you walk in, my lord?
Marry, I will, let them play it. Is not a
Must court'sy at the censure:--O boys, this story
For here lies Juliet, and her beauty makes
good will to the maid?
And when the hardiest warriors did retire,
Were testimonies against his worth and credit
Enter IMOGEN and PISANIO
Against my soul's pure truth why labour you
Thou virtuous Dauphin, alter not the doom
Whose was't?
Leave this faint puling and lament as I do,
Like to the summer's corn by tempest lodged.
Here lies my gown.
The body of the country, city, court,
I will not take her on gift of any man.
I should not seek an absent argument
Your loneliness. We are oft to blame in this,--
How this Herculean Roman does become
What, would you have my weapon, little lord?
Being wanted, he may be more wonder'd at,
perfect gallows. Stand fast, good Fate, to his
I would not wish a drop of Trojan blood
The subject of our watch.
Publius, come hither, Caius, and Valentine!
The first, Edward the Black Prince, Prince of Wales;
very competent injury: therefore, get you on and
And bade them speak to him: then prophet-like
Time is their master, and, when they see time,
anew: but I must attend his majesty's command, to
We may digest our complots in some form.
If you bethink yourself of any crime
What an ass art thou! I understand thee not.
Bright star of Venus, fall'n down on the earth,
They may, 'cum privilegio,' wear away
Between whose endless jar justice resides,
That at her hands which the king's King forbids.
Soft! it smells most sweetly in my sense.
undiscovered. But 'tis all one to me; for had I
Which gives men stomach to digest his words
When every thing seems double.
How he did seem to dive into their hearts
As 'twere in scorn of eyes, reflecting gems,
thou hast leisure, say thy prayers; when thou hast
And temper clay with blood of Englishmen:
bleeding in me. I speak not out of weak surmises,
That should be in a Roman you do want,
that infirm and choleric years bring with them.
sir, a father: he that so generally is at all times
There's no man happy; the purest of their wives
Becomes a warlike people, whom we reckon
Gentle Lucetta, fit me with such weeds
Go anticly, show outward hideousness,
They wound my thoughts worse than sword my flesh:
But if you fondly pass our proffer'd offer,
You must provide to bottom it on me;
One jot of ceremony.
the fury of his heart, when the foul fiend rages,
Did us but loving wrong.
not, that you are not the Jew's daughter.
You kill her double. Nay, present your hand:
Exit
With unrestrained loose companions,
And what will you do now? How will you live?
That I have said to some my standers by
Doubting thy birth and lawful progeny.
Exit
Puts back leave-taking, justles roughly by
That all the Greeks begin to worship Ajax;
And furthermore, well have the Lord Say's head for
And suffer you to breathe in fruitful peace,
Even from the gallows did his fell soul fleet,
Sir John and Sir Hugh Mortimer, mine uncles,
Exeunt ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Or as a little snow, tumbled about,
Would I might never stir from off this place,
'Tis thought you have a goodly gift in horning;
Behold, my Lord of Winchester, the duke
And not neglected; else, if heaven would,
But, like in sickness, did I loathe this food;
Why, let the stricken deer go weep,
Do not abuse my master's bounty by
What, you wrestle to-morrow before the new duke?
will depart unkissed.
No more than were I painted I would wish
gentler gamester is the soonest winner.
And satisfy the deputy with the visage
Let us entreat, by honour of his name,
Unpleasing to a married ear!
I am not in the roll of common men.
Like prisoners wildly overgrown with hair,
Seeming and savour all the winter long:
Shall dizzy with more clamour Neptune's ear
[Aside to ANTONIO]  The next advantage
In every county as we go along.
A hundred, if they'll do you any good.
But that there is this jewel in the world
But custom what they did begin
Blanket my loins: elf all my hair in knots;
Nor take no shape nor project of affection,
Prepare for mirth, for mirth becomes a feast:
SCENE III. Gloucester's castle.
much honour, that thou wert not with me in this sweet
There's hope in't yet.
Kin to Jove's thunder, so surprised my sense.
Enter CYMBELINE and QUEEN
Back, foolish tears, back to your native spring;
And blemish Caesar's triumph. Let him take thee,
Exit
Here is a purr of fortune's, sir, or of fortune's
I am a very foolish fond old man,
Your charity, and hundreds call themselves
Let every feeble rumour shake your hearts!
Adieu, good neighbour.
For I myself am not so well provided
Ready to starve and dare not touch his own:
By that you love the dearest in this world,
These ears of mine, thou know'st did hear thee.
[Giving his petition]  Against my master, Thomas
And go we, lords, to put in practise that
And, not without some scandal to yourself,
As you from crimes would pardon'd be,
And such a want-wit sadness makes of me,
Pieces of gold 'gainst this which then he wore
See to my house, left in the fearful guard
What, hast not thou full often struck a doe,
Unless thou tell'st me where thou hadst this ring,
We doubt it nothing: heartily farewell.
May not extend so far as to the lady:
Be not so hasty to confound my meaning:
shall undo a whole household, let me be gelded like
that he is a gouty Briareus, many hands and no use,
And his great love, sharp as his spur, hath holp him
venturing.
Will be himself.
by have some speech with you: the satisfaction I
Farewell to you; and you; and you, Volumnius.
But ere I last received the sacrament
Though Cloten then but young, you see, not wore him
And wrinkled deep in time? Broad-fronted Caesar,
That thee may furnish and my prayers pluck down,
Her husband, knave: wouldst thou betray me?
Dazzle mine eyes, or do I see three suns?
Though his false finger have profaned the ring,
Why did you suffer Iachimo,
Known unto these, and to myself disguised!
How now! a madman! Why, thou peevish sheep,
These Kentish rebels would be soon appeased!
didst thou not fall out with a tailor for wearing
Lay hands upon these traitors and their trash.
Ay, and the captain of his horse, Count Rousillon.
The cardinal's not my better in the field.
And triumphs over chance in honour's bed.
I thank you, sir: had I not known those customs,
war-like, court-like, and learned preparations.
MARCUS strikes the dish with a knife
Enter MARCUS
I will be his conduct.
at their money: these debts may well be called
Which elder days shall ripen and confirm
It were no match, your nail against his horn.
would come to immediate trial, if your lordship
Damn'd in the first beginners!--gan to look
The good old man would fain that all were well,
By yielding up thy body to my will;
What follows if we disallow of this?
I quickly were dissolved from my hive,
Our knees shall kneel till to the ground they grow:
But, gentle friend, for love and courtesy
You will say she did embrace me as a husband,
I beseech your honour, give me leave: a word, and
Come, sister: I am press'd down with conceit--
yields pound and odd shilling; fifteen hundred
When thou wakest,
'Lo, Caesar is afraid'?
If it be possible for you to displace it with your
What, would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher
Why art thou yet so fair? shall I believe
Because he is protector of the realm,
His woeful queen we leave at Ephesus,
amends is but patched with virtue. If that this
You and you are sure together,
I am the son of Marcus Cato, ho!
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
congregation, shame her with what he saw o'er night
And his achievements of no less account:
And angels officed all: I will be gone,
and devils!
Though in Rome litter'd--not Romans--as they are not,
But I would have him dead, my Lord of Suffolk,
Arrest them to the answer of the law;
Of that quick spirit that is in Antony.
You, that are thus so tender o'er his follies,
Although thy breath be rude.
And that my sword upon thee shall approve,
Thisbe runs off
If I mistake not, thou art Harry Monmouth.
Have caused him, by new act of parliament,
Put your main cause into the king's protection;
On horror's head horrors accumulate;
Enter SILVIA
Let him know't.
And yet enrich'd it too: she gave it me, and said
Would we had spoke together! Haste we for it:
SCENE II. Blackheath.
That she reserves it evermore about her
Then what intends these forces thou dost bring?
Imprison'd thou didst painfully remain
What tidings with our cousin Buckingham?
is more, pensioners; but, I warrant you, all is one with her.
This is nothing, fool.
Antony,
Durst never meddle--in the soul of state;
By three and twenty thousand of the French
whom Cominius the general is gone, with one part of
Exit
Enter the two French Lords and some two or three Soldiers
Up in my heart; which I have given already,
Clambering the walls to eye him: stalls, bulks, windows,
This servitude makes you to keep unwed.
And now, to add more measure to your woes,
A heaven on earth I have won by wooing thee.
'Twere good you do so much for charity.
Think of this, good peers,
A liberal hand: the hearts of old gave hands;
Derive some pain from you: plague all;
Here he ascendeth his throne
More bound to 's mother; yet here he lets me prate
Bless thy five wits!
Virgins and boys, mid-age and wrinkled eld,
Ah, my sweet Moor, sweeter to me than life!
May you stead me? will you pleasure me? shall I
Exeunt
That were with him exiled. This to be true,
Exeunt CAPULET and PARIS
Which would increase his evil. He that depends
I and my hundred knights.
I something do excuse the thing I hate,
Of chamber-hanging, pictures, this her bracelet,--
I mean the Earl of Wiltshire, Bushy, Green.
May do, to express his love and friending to you,
Exeunt
be out of all compass, out of all reasonable
cook. I speak to thee plain soldier: If thou canst
Thus, sir:
[Reads]  'Thou comest to the lady Olivia, and in my
Follow me, and receive't.
And so of these. Which is the natural man,
Would she begin a sect, might quench the zeal
Is eaten by the canker ere it blow,
But, being seasoned with a gracious voice,
O, thou didst prophesy the time would come
Mark him and write his speeches in their books,
[Reads]  'First demand of him how many horse the
Hath in the tables of his law commanded
What I have said, Bianca, get you in:
The sovereignty will fall upon Macbeth.
And Don Armado shall be your keeper.
They would not take her life. Is not this true?
Afford no extraordinary gaze,
In undeserved extremes: see else yourself;
I promise you, the effects he writes of succeed
Yet, for our gentlemen that mean to see
We have here one, sir, if she would--but there never
a quarrel, but nothing wherefore. O God, that men
It's no matter for that, so she sleep not in her talk.
Why, man, they did make love to this employment;
Against thy peace. Go with me to my house,
Jack Rugby!
Of our dear souls. Meantime, sweet sister,
But for my hand, as unattempted yet,
You know a sword employ'd is perilous,
That they did give the rings away to men;
O heavens forfend!
That I have worn so many winters out,
Edmund, I hear that you have shown your father
The morning's danger, and their gesture sad
Marry, peace it bodes, and love and quiet life,
Thou never comest unto a happy birth,
He says he will return incontinent:
Marry, this well carried shall on her behalf
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY, the purse borne before him,  certain of the Guard, and two Secretaries with  papers. CARDINAL WOLSEY in his passage fixeth his  eye on BUCKINGHAM, and BUCKINGHAM on him, both full of disdain
About the hour of eight, which he himself
I here do give thee that with all my heart
O heaven! were man
Be't so:
What, art thou drawn among these heartless hinds?
Nay, sure, he's not in hell: he's in Arthur's
Of that self-blood that first gave life to you,
The great Achilles, whom opinion crowns
The ruin of the state.
When I said, banish him, I said 'twas pity.
This proves you wise and rich, for in my eye,--
ladies out of their wits, they would have no more
Spoke by a holy monk; 'that oft,' says he,
You tread upon my patience: but be sure
So thou refuse to drink my dear sons' blood.
Where our desire is got without content:
FLORIZEL and AUTOLYCUS exchange garments
Her dotage now I do begin to pity:
With swifter spleen than powder can enforce,
And in the mean time sojourn'd at my father's;
you, throw none away; the skin is good for your
Bring forth that fatal screech-owl to our house,
Why, then he is alive.
should be otherwise.
With titles blown from adulation?
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
What, stain'd with blood!
Rather in power than use, and keep thy friend
Good madam, pardon me!
Till Norfolk be repeal'd: repeal'd he shall be,
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.
I'll get me one of such another length.
With violent hefts. I have drunk,
vill kill de Jack priest; and I have appointed mine
O sir, the loathsomeness of them offends me more
Denied my house for his, me for his wife.
To use it like a giant.
Which robs my tongue from breathing native breath?
Had all his hairs been lives, my great revenge
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
And ruthless slaughters as are daily seen
Enter another Messenger
And after that, he came, thus sad, away?
shamed that was never gracious; if killed, but one
'Tis now too certain:
And self-reproving: bring his constant pleasure.
Who hast the memory of Hermione,
'Tis midnight; I'll go arm myself.
When it is paid, bring your true friend along.
And to thy worth will add right worthy gains.
I dare be sworn for him he would not leave it
And will for evermore be true to it.
And therefore haste I to the parliament,
Meanwhile, sir, with the little skill I have,
Then, England's messenger, return in post,
over this stool and run away.
There is more difference between thy flesh and hers
You smile and mock me, as if I meant naughtily.
This wicked emperor may have shipp'd her hence;
The passages of alleys, creeks and narrow lands;
Old Time the clock-setter, that bald sexton Time,
Then 'tis he: the rest
Well, we will have such a prologue; and it shall be
If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not
cowardly rascal, nature disclaims in thee: a
Swords! any thing, he cares not; an the devil come
And to be judged by him.
Striking RODERIGO
SCENE I. Verona. A public place.
Of the old rage: bear with me, I am sick;
Bravely the figure of this harpy hast thou
king; and take vanity the puppet's part against the
What my tongue speaks my right drawn sword may prove.
sweet-faced man; a proper man, as one shall see in a
O heavy burthen!
You say well.
Arthur of Bretagne, yield thee to my hand;
Exeunt
Between these woolly breeders in the act,
If any noise or soldier you perceive
revels his addiction leads him: for, besides these
Which hath been smooth as oil, soft as young down,
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause,
More cruel to your good report than grateful
Took stand for idle speculation:
Thrusts forth his horns again into the world;
More than they were in note: amongst the rest,
not to kill the duke.
And therefore, in mine opinion, cannot have it:
And laugh upon the apple of her eye?
But doth suffer a sea-change
Brother, we shall. Go, uncle Exeter,
Be patient, gentle Earl of Westmoreland.
page, Hercules,--
I am no strumpet; but of life as honest
And fearful to be granted.
A heavy sight!
It was his word: O, he would miss it rather
hanging about the neck of my heart, says very wisely
I the great toe! why the great toe?
'Achilles hath the mighty Hector slain.'
Into this scatter'd kingdom; who already,
I have drunk poison whiles he utter'd it.
Is numbering sands and drinking oceans dry:
Thou bear'st my life off hence: let us avoid.
Do not throw from you: and you, my lords, farewell:
And thinking of it makes me cry 'alas!'
And to you, gentle sir, and to you all.
Good my lord, give me thy favour still.
The curtain'd sleep; witchcraft celebrates
Whither away, or where is thy abode?
Although as yet the face of it be cover'd
Good friar, let's hear it.
OLD receptacles, or common shores, of filth;
Who, hearing of your melancholy state,
Di faciant laudis summa sit ista tuae!
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
him in excellence; but, to know a man well, were to
service I have done fatherly.
Show me one scar character'd on thy skin:
As levels with her breeding.
But how, but how? give me particulars.
And should she thus be stol'n away from you,
Go to; you are not, Cassius.
will draw a bill of properties, such as our play
By your pardon;
The dozen white louses do become an old coat well;
That speak against us! A charge we bear i' the war,
Who keeps the tent now?
thou alive?
My fair Bianca, bid my father welcome,
Leonato, stand I here?
Cannot conclude but by the yea and no
You are all resolved rather to die than to famish?
The time is troublesome.
If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son,
Only this proof I'll of thy valour make,
Her eye is sick on't: I observe her now.
There's meed for meed, death for a deadly deed!
That's my brave boy!
Her name is Portia, nothing undervalued
of Nobody.
What answer, sir? when spake I such a word?
Very sooth, to-morrow.
purse when he looks so merrily.
And thus she means, videlicet:--
Here had we now our country's honour roof'd,
Hung be the heavens with black, yield day to night!
Well, well see't. Come, madam wife, sit by my side
To prove myself a loyal gentleman
Aside
SCENE II. A public place.
O Iago!
Most smiling, smooth, detested parasites,
Caesar hath sent--
Will it give place to flexure and low bending?
If you strike me, you are no gentleman;
am so good a proficient in one quarter of an hour,
Have I not tarried?
This very night at one another's heels,
Exeunt
I doubt some danger does approach you nearly:
with a kiss, and let not him speak neither.
Oh, he is young and his minority
More pious debts to heaven than in all
Nor is't directly laid to thee, the death
Yet come again; for thou perhaps mayst move
here the voluntary, and you as under an impress.
Therefore lay hold of him;
In both my eyes he doubly sees himself;
Against the flint and hardness of my fault:
And with full line of his authority,
Farewell, Monsieur Traveller: look you lisp and
Who holds his state at door, 'mongst pursuivants,
Thunder still
And bear the palm alone.
holy, cold, and still conversation.
I live unstain'd, thou undishonoured.
Enter KING HENRY, BEDFORD, and GLOUCESTER
Good my liege, I come;
To wash away my woful monuments.
That sings with piercing; do not touch my lord.
Here comes Baptista: set your countenance, sir.
Tybalt, Lucio and the lively Helena.' A fair
And show the heavens more just.
men would carry coals. They would have me as
The air, a charter'd libertine, is still,
By thine own tongue thou art condemn'd, and must
what's Achilles?
SCENE III. A lonely part of the forest.
Then judge, great lords, if I have done amiss;
Mine ear is open and my heart prepared;
I will say so.
That man might ne'er be wretched for his mind.
Whose face between her forks presages snow;
That lie within the mercy of your wit.
heart, let that pass. By the world, I recount no
not be long; that the time may have all shadow and
My cake is dough; but I'll in among the rest,
I mean, that my heart unto yours is knit
When will he be here?
What is that?
Holy Saint Francis, what a change is here!
Cannot with safety cast him, for he's embark'd
When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done?
So other foes may set upon our backs.
Henceforth I will not have to do with pity:
Such as is bent on sun-like majesty
Even such as they give out. I like your work;
And what is mine my love shall render him.
I would have been a-bed an hour ago.
As that which makes it.
His good remembrance, sir,
How shall I know thee again?
'tis thou
If the duke be guiltless,
Look, what is done cannot be now amended:
So sways she level in her husband's heart:
And I have heard, you knights of Tyre
our supplications in the quill.
hangs a tale.
The worms were hallow'd that did breed the silk;
His body for a girl that loves him not:
I'll make my will then, and, as sick men do
And, as she fled, her mantle she did fall,
And ne'er prefer his injuries to his heart,
The crown, usurp'd, disgraced his kingly glory.
Young Harry Percy and brave Archibald,
An if my face were but as fair as yours,
prove a good soldier-breeder: shall not thou and I,
Bear thou my hand, sweet wench, between thy teeth.
Therefore confess thee freely of thy sin;
These arms of mine shall be thy winding-sheet;
Since mine own doors refuse to entertain me,
Still sleep mock'd death: behold, and say 'tis well.
Will modestly discover to yourself
That ever, ever, I did yet behold!
Nay, as they dare. I will bite my thumb at them;
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
We will speak further.
The King of Naples and Jerusalem;
Here, madam, at your service.
His brother-in-law, the foolish Mortimer;
when they will not give a doit to relieve a lame
I would play Lord Pandarus of Phrygia, sir, to bring
I will, my lord. Come on, sirrah; off with your
A mother's tears in passion for her son:
To lead you to our court; vouchsafe it then.
Dear my lord, pardon,--I dare not,
But let me see: is this our foeman's face?
access to you.
There is nor flying hence nor tarrying here.
I am ill at reckoning; it fitteth the spirit of a tapster.
professes not keeping of oaths; in breaking 'em he
Gentle, and low, an excellent thing in woman.
Knock off his manacles; bring your prisoner to the king.
That westward rooteth from the city's side,
Enter a Post
How now?
Which was before barr'd up with ribs of iron!
till then, sit thee down, sorrow!
My name is Constance; I was Geffrey's wife;
To do worse to you were fell cruelty,
And had as ample power as I have will,
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
As 'tis with us that square our guess by shows;
And while I pause, serve in your harmony.
I cannot blame his conscience.
lyingest knave in Christendom. What! I am not
they make you not then the better answer, you may
What, the chain?
Thy grace shall have it.
Immediately they will again be here
Their slimy jaws; and, as I draw them up,
Nor I neither; but I can tell why a snail has a house.
What noise is this I hear? Dare any be so bold to
Exeunt
Of Launcelot, an't please your mastership.
Throw this report on their incensed rage,
Did not I say he would work it out? the cur is
What must the king do now? must he submit?
I hope you will consider what is spoke
my father lived, give twenty, forty, fifty, an
In wisdom I should ask thy name;
And that it was great pity, so it was,
We shall have him here to-morrow with his best ruff on.
Well, go to, I will;
I would not care, I then would be content,
My lord, the man I know.
The wars for my money. I hope to see Romans as cheap
That this is true, father, behold his blood.
Enter DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO, and two or three others
For no less spoil than glory,--
You find him like a soldier: do not take
Yours, yours.
Nay, take them.
I do arrest you in his highness' name;
a boot is here with this exchange! Sure the gods do
All that he is hath reference to your highness.
The king doth smile at; and is well prepared
Ay, now begin our sorrows to approach:
Most high, most mighty, and most puissant Caesar,
In three our kingdom: and 'tis our fast intent
Exit
The former man may make him. Bring us to him,
Exeunt
Than for myself I dare: let that suffice you.
The value of her own: 'twere a concealment
Search Windsor Castle, elves, within and out:
And raise some special officers of night.
Before we reckon with your several loves,
He's almost slain, and Roderigo dead.
And send them thither: but at hand, at hand,
Where is my brother Hector?
My noble father,
'Tis done.
I cannot tremble at it: were it Toad, or
Hector was but a Troyan in respect of this.
He does me double wrong
What's here? A scroll; and written round about?
Exit
That's me, I warrant you.
Only their ends
The other three are sealing. Octavia weeps
Shall we resolve to woo these girls of France?
Bring me a father that so loved his child,
My lord, most villanously; believe it.
To harder bosoms! Looking on the lines
I must prevent thee, Cimber.
Antony offer him a crown;--yet 'twas not a crown
Provided that my banishment repeal'd
Come on, our queen: to-morrow must we part;
Who's there?
What claim lays she to thee?
but for smelling out the odouriferous flowers of
And more, much more; the time will bring it out:
Why, 'tis the rarest argument of wonder that hath
most resolutely snatched on Monday night and most
Not poison any further.
Or all will fall in broil.
I had rather crack my sinews, break my back,
Re-enter BOULT
Of what is in her chamber nothing saves
To move is to stir; and to be valiant is to stand:
Not an inch further. But hark you, Kate:
Friar, I must entreat your pains, I think.
It is writ to Jaquenetta.
numbers. Away I go. They say there is divinity in
Upon whose faith and honour I repose.
I know you well enough; you are Signior Antonio.
He loves you, on my life, and holds you dear
that I will make the duke say 'Let him roar again,
The star is fall'n.
Thy favour's good enough. Some jay of Italy
Than common sleep of all these five the sense.
That rids our dogs of languish?
Enter a Gentleman
With fervency drew up.
I think thou art an ass.
Which in myself I boldly will defend;
I am his king, and he should bow his knee;
Or never trust to what my tongue can do
I cannot hate thee worser than I do,
Most true, 'tis right; you were so, Alisander.
Where he shall answer, by a lawful form,
My lord, I hear none.
For one to thrust his hand between his teeth,
And boding screech-owls make the concert full!
To CORDELIA
Which are so weak of courage and in judgment
But that's no fault of his: we must receive him
Thou hast howl'd away twelve winters.
If, after two days' shine, Athens contain thee,
lord of the council rated me the other day in the
Now is the mural down between the two neighbours.
Tied all the kingdom: simony was fair-play;
SCENE III. A street.
But let the frame of things disjoint, both the
They'll roar him in again. Tullus Aufidius,
Might you dispense with your leisure, I would by and
I thought no less: it is his policy
That shall be rack'd, even to the uttermost,
Great pails of puddled mire to quench the hair:
To bring forth this discovery. Seek these suitors:
And now Ventidius is wealthy too,
Much feater than before: my brother's servants
Hence with thy stripes, begone!
And sleep, that sometimes shuts up sorrow's eye,
oil that's in me should set hell on fire; he would
And sandy-bottom'd Severn have I sent him
And that the queen's kindred are made gentle-folks:
We attend.
Thou being a goddess, I forswore not thee:
I would not lose the dog for twenty pound.
warrant, a virtuous,--Where is your mother?
Outworths a noble's blood.
The world will say, he is not Talbot's blood,
For I the ballad will repeat,
For this revolt of thine, methinks, is like
Whiles I in Ireland nourish a mighty band,
cut off a woman's head.
SCENE III. The same. A hall of state: a banquet prepared.
Against a falling fabric. Will you hence,
Should be maintain'd, assembled and collected,
my state,--
Enter KATHARINE and ALICE
What, ho! apothecary!
they hate upon no better a ground: therefore, for
Of my petition.
But he must die to-morrow?
And pride of their contention did take horse,
Take, O, take those lips away,
His valour, coin and people, in the wars?
Exeunt Attendants
My Lord of Burgundy, we'll take your oath,
With all my imperfections on my head:
You have among you many a purchased slave,
Thou wast installed in that high degree.
If this foul deed were by to equal it:
Or to dispraise my lord with that same tongue
Beggar the estimation which you prized
As frowning at the favours of the world?
I am answered, sir.
And weep ye now, seeing she is advanced
Not I, believe me: you have dancing shoes
Wherefore are these things hid? wherefore have
In hope thyself should govern Rome and me.
'Tis the next way to turn tailor, or be red-breast
I am come
But Henry now shall wear the English crown,
For them the gracious Duncan have I murder'd;
Where the disease is violent. Lay hands upon him,
Where is she, sir? Come nearer;
long peace, ten times more dishonourable ragged than
Sir, you have done this in the fear of God, very
What! fear not, man, but yield me up the keys;
When briers shall have leaves as well as thorns,
A hair-brain'd Hotspur, govern'd by a spleen:
To sounds confused; behold the threaden sails,
'Twas Helicanus then.
Tell him the emperor and the empress too
And not their appetites! I had rather be a toad,
I am beholding to you: cheer your neighbours.
Of laughing with a sigh?--a note infallible
And your great love to me restrains you thus:
were a thought browner; and your gown's a most rare
And even there, methinks, an angel spake:
Where did you leave him?
Yet that thy brazen gates of heaven may ope,
Sometimes her head on one side, some another;
he dead, bully stale? is he dead?
Give him the cup.
guides. Who comes here?
The height, the crest, or crest unto the crest,
Shall I have justice? what says Jupiter?
Publicola, and Caelius, are for sea:
Breathe I against thee, upon pain of life.
Be near me, that I may remember you.
Tedious it were to tell, and harsh to hear:
Of this new sect? ye are not sound.
So is the bargain.
Ran hither to your grace; whom I beseech
Proclaim you are no less! Can you so stead me
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
That now
Pass.
Away, and talk not; trouble us no more.
O heavens! O heavens!
Pay him the due of honey-tongued Boyet.
But it raises the greater war between him and
And passion in the gods.'
Rises, and walks aside
Enter FLAVIUS, with many bills in his hand
Of this child-changed father!
one: 'What cur is that?' says another: 'Whip him
I pray thee, lend me thine.
[Aside]  That such an ass should owe them.
in flesh and blood.
Enter PISTOL
I'm sure, in me.
Then on, my lords; and France be fortunate!
Look you what I have from the loving king.
As well they may upbraid me with my crown,
Do thine own fortunes that obedient right
Which served me as fit, by all men's judgments,
in truth, la. Nay, I care not for such words; no,
Upon her great disaster.
o'clock in the afternoon.
Exit with Third Fisherman
lady; and I offered him my company to a willow-tree,
We do no otherwise than we are will'd.
When I forget to send to Antony,
mourners, and stay dinner.
And fire us hence like foxes. Wipe thine eyes;
I might do't as well i' the dark.
Nay, by God, soft; I know a trick worth two of that, i' faith.
Lo, at their births good stars were opposite.
Lest by his clamour--as it so fell out--
And occupations perish!
You must think this, look you, that the worm will
That's by me wounded: both our remedies
Diana, aid my purpose!
What else? and that succession be determined.
I am thy friend, and pity thee, dear Timon.
I kneel before thee; and unproperly
Painted on a pole, and underwrit,
Exeunt
Go to; say you nothing. There's a division betwixt
Drums afar off
Amongst his subjects and his loyal friends,
Enter Servant
See how he fares.
What would my potent master? here I am.
You have made good work,
I have not heard examined.
'I have, upon especial cause,
Twelve several times, and I have nightly since
None, but your beauty: would that fault were mine!
All punish'd in the person of this child,
And interchangeably hurl down my gage
What, is he angry?
Despite Duke Humphrey or the cardinal.
Why do you stay so long, my lords of France?
Even to the court, the heart, to the seat o' the brain;
shot, who disgraced, what terms the enemy stood on;
Thou shouldst not scape me here.
Such as were grown to credit by the wars;
would have searched it; but fate, ordaining he
Out upon thee, knave! dost thou put upon me at once
very first house, of the first and second cause:
As Hector, I assure you: and in the managing of
Good Bardolph, put thy face between his sheets, and
ACT IV
On yon proud man, should take it off again
I give him curses, yet he gives me love.
Mine, such as fill my heart with unhoped joys.
Dispatch, I prithee.
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
The foolish Fates.
We'll both together lift our heads to heaven,
Of cruel war: sixty and nine, that wore
Enter QUINCE, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
To shallow rivers, to whose falls-
mind is: Why give him gold enough and marry him to
Good day, Camillo.
Looks on alike. Will't please you, sir, be gone?
hither: I must employ him in a letter to my love.
Why, now is Cupid a child of conscience; he makes
We have made to endure friends, that you directly
And, like a dew-drop from the lion's mane,
Places remote enough are in Bohemia,
Ay, sir, very well.
That we may be admitted where he is.
For all the accommodations that thou bear'st
On you or yours,
cannot plead his estimation with you; he hath been a bawd.
To whom expressly I bring greeting too.
more of your matter before the King.
Death, that hath ta'en her hence to make me wail,
and he's a man good enough, he's one o' the soundest
epitaph than their ill report while you live.
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks;
Reads
And that would set my teeth nothing on edge,
Exeunt LUCIO and Gentlemen
And I am mean indeed, respecting you.
For high feats done to the crown; neither allied
'Boarding,' call you it? I'll be sure to keep him
But, wherefore, villain, didst thou kill my cousin?
Is the initiate fear that wants hard use:
No? when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she
Well, I will call Beatrice to you, who I think hath legs.
By my troth, the fool has an excellent breast. I
Mark'd with a blot, damn'd in the book of heaven:
arrant cowards, there's no equity stirring: there's
I love thee; I have spoke it
Against our nuptial and confer with you
Be one of those that think
Forsake the court: to do't, or no, is certain
SCENE III. The forest.
Where's your commission, lords? words cannot carry
Wouldst have me weep? why, now thou hast thy will:
AEneas is a-field;
Forth of my heart those charms, thine eyes, are blotted;
in her presence.
So great as our dread father in a scale
That had a head to hit, either young or old,
By him that justly may
That slew thy kinsman, brave Mercutio.
And, having France thy friend, thou shalt not dread
You must be gone from hence immediately.
To give it her. I did so: and take heed on't;
You will take little delight in it, I can tell you;
Oppose not Scythia to ambitious Rome.
We have not spoke us yet of torchbearers.
The tongues of mocking wenches are as keen
You do extend
A plague upon your epileptic visage!
Received and did deliver to our age
With all my heart; and much it joys me too,
innocency Adam fell; and what should poor Jack
Secure of thunder's crack or lightning flash;
shall know within this hour, if I may come to the
How far brought you high Hereford on his way?
Leave me, I pray, a little: pray you now:
Enter CATESBY
but the wood, no assembly but horn-beasts. But what
To his protection, calls him Posthumus Leonatus,
Exit
And tell them, there thy fixed foot shall grow
this huge hill of flesh,--
As I am glad I have not, though not to have it
For love, thou know'st, is full of jealousy.
Were you made the messenger?
Allow'd with absolute power and thy good name
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
As will to greatness dedicate themselves,
I am sworn,
And make some pretty match with shedding tears?
And force the tyrant from his seat by war.
Your will to mine,--and you, sir, hear you,
following. Now, sir, for the manner,--it is the
Glad that you thus continue your resolve
His nurse! why, she was dead ere thou wert born.
Thus do I leave thee. Come, son, let's away;
Be in their flowing cups freshly remember'd.
counterfeit assurance: take you assurance of her,
Exeunt CLEOMENES and others
If you do sweat to put a tyrant down,
I'll thither: what thing is it that I never
Their dearest action in the tented field,
Sweet draught: 'sweet' quoth 'a! sweet sink,
I will watch to-night;
my intelligence is true; my jealousy is reasonable.
That by proscription and bills of outlawry,
Knock at my door, and tell me what he says.
Have I not told thee how I was cozened by the way
You tender more your person's honour than
Exeunt
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Some poison'd by their wives: some sleeping kill'd;
loss! the thief gone with so much, and so much to
Exit, borne off by his Attendants
it is no matter; thyself upon thyself! The common
Blest, and mine own!
There's meaning in thy snores.
Self-mettle tires him. Not a man in England
Sir Robert's son: why scorn'st thou at sir Robert?
We may boldly spend upon the hope of what
My herald is return'd.
But owe thy pride thyself.
Master, if ever I said loose-bodied gown, sew me in
No, sir, I warrant you.
Ah, my good Lord of Winchester, I thank you;
And follows close the rigour of the statute,
Thus dost thou hear the Nemean lion roar
To make itself, in thee, fair and admired!
best of 'em were hereditary hangmen. God-den to
There left behind and settled certain French;
this a place to roar in? Fetch me a dozen crab-tree
With loyal blazon, evermore be blest!
And prays you to believe him.
My father as he slept, I had done't.
Woman its pretty self--into a waggish courage:
Change you, madam?
Of my wife's brother, then his cheek look'd pale,
Fair payment for foul words is more than due.
Kill the still-closing waters, as diminish
And when you would say something that is sad,
Where Helen is the subject; then, I say,
Is smooth'd by that below: the learned pate
'Faith, I have heard too much, for your words and
When Goths were Goths and Tamora was queen--
Thou hast no faith left now, unless thou'dst two;
Wash my fierce hand in's heart. Go you to the city;
These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues.
Who, I, my lord?
As smiles upon the forehead of this action
Good night, my noble lord.
or nine year: a tanner will last you nine year.
loves the whore there, might send that Greekish
Will you have me, lady?
Come on, sit down: come on, and do your best
If thou but frown on me, or stir thy foot,
To three thousand dolours a year.
Where of the execution did cry out
Your loss your sport: I hope you know that we
Come, therefore, and to Thasos send his body:
Is likely to beget more conquerors,
When theirs are dry, for Romeo's banishment.
That the poor soldier that so richly fought,
more approbation than ever proof itself would have
It will be short: the interim is mine;
Yet now, I must confess, that duty done,
Never come such division 'tween our souls!
For it is unpeopled? No:
Sound a parley
But I do find it cowardly and vile,
Enter ROBIN
Into so quiet and so sweet a style.
As they would hang them on the horns o' the moon,
Nay, stay a little:
My commission
breakfast in the cheapest country under the cope,
I would with such perfection govern, sir,
I do in birth deserve her, and in fortunes,
Two chantries, where the sad and solemn priests
To let you know of it.
no. Why? detraction will not suffer it. Therefore
That thou mightst think upon these by the seal,
Seven times tried that judgment is,
Neighbours, you are tedious.
Their herald is a pretty knavish page,
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe!
Our crown, our life, and all that we can ours,
Enter PROSPERO above, invisible. Enter several  strange Shapes, bringing in a banquet;  they dance about it with gentle actions of  salutation; and, inviting the King,  and c. to eat, they depart
Will vouch the truth of it. Him I accuse
The last is, for my men; they are the poorest,
Orlando.
Dispatch; the limit of your lives is out.
It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
I'll undertake may see away their shilling
And Somerset, with Oxford fled to her:
By false intelligence, or wrong surmise,
Sir John! art thou there, my deer? my male deer?
Was made a wonder and a pointing-stock
Have got a speeding trick to lay down ladies;
Here a' comes; and the Scots captain, Captain Jamy, with him.
To see fair Padua, nursery of arts,
And am so near the lack of charity--
You may deny me; but I'll be your servant,
To be young again, if we could: I will be a fool in
Says it is past her cure.
like your old ling and your Isbels o' the court:
Receive my tears and seem to weep with me;
Gloucester, York, Buckingham, Somerset,
She was too fond of her most filthy bargain.
What I dare too well do, I dare not do.
Therefore 'tis meet Achilles meet not Hector.
Besides, the seeing these effects will be
This I'll report, dear lady.
Have you not made an universal shout,
This nothing's more than matter.
And therefore banish'd--is a creature such
Ay, sir.
Why, then, your ladyship must cut your hair.
was never man thus abused. I am no more mad than you
Father, you cannot disinherit me:
mind good; O, there were desolation of gaolers and
Sometime she driveth o'er a soldier's neck,
On my word, it will serve him; she's as big as he
A good riddance.
Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in 't?
Let him alone:
Or I with grief and extreme age shall perish
To BASSANIO
In the cauldron boil and bake;
I can again thy former light restore,
Most provident in peril, bind himself,
Re-enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
And, as you trip, still pinch him to your time.
Making you ever better than his praise
Most heavy day!
Falsely to take away a life true made
Well, go to; we'll have no bastards live;
To trumpet such good tidings! If not well,
[Within]  If thy name be call'd Luce--Luce, thou hast
Ability in means and choice of friends,
Then shall we be news-crammed.
8. A canopy borne by four of the Cinque-ports;
It is a chance which does redeem all sorrows
2. Then, two Judges.
Forestall our sport, to make us thus untrue?
Then reason safely with you. Therefore, be it known,
But since my master and mistress have bought you,
The people's hearts, and wean them from themselves.
For so they seem: they've left their barge and landed;
For more is to be said and to be done
How do you, Malvolio?
Why, that to know, which else we should not know.
Now, sirs, have you dispatch'd this thing?
Yea, as sure as I have a thought or a soul.
I am sorry to hear this.
But time hath rooted out my parentage,
If it were so that our request did tend
Met we on hill, in dale, forest or mead,
Tell him, cavaleiro-justice; tell him, bully-rook.
What, courage, man! What though care killed a cat,
Pray you, put up your dagger, and put out your wit.
Have seal'd his rigorous statutes with their bloods,
Who is that that spake?
SCENE III. LEONATO'S orchard.
Thy stones with lime and hair knit up in thee.
O, bless me here with thy victorious hand,
My most dear Gloucester!
Being black put us in mind they hide the fair;
Unless thou say 'Prince Pericles is dead.'
Exeunt COUNTESS and Gentlemen
Peace have they made with him indeed, my lord.
As a fair day in summer, wondrous fair.
That I may give the local wound a name
Present him eminence, both with eye and tongue:
And AEsculapius guide us!
Rogues, hence, avaunt! vanish like hailstones, go;
his grace, and it better fits my blood to be
Here is her hand, the agent of her heart;
Sir, sir,--
To walk unbraced and suck up the humours
I should do thus.
midway between him and Benedick: the one is too
Ay, noble uncle, thus ignobly used,
Nym, and Pistol.
Nor showing, as the manner is, his wounds
they'ld do't!
O Antony!--Nay, I will take thee too.
Alarum. Enter fighting, Soldiers of both armies; then BRUTUS, CATO, LUCILIUS, and others
am a peppercorn, a brewer's horse: the inside of a
And I have read that Hecuba of Troy
Pinion him like a thief, bring him before us.
lying asleep.
With trees upon't, that nod unto the world,
Enter AENEAS
And then receive my money for the chain.
The sky, it seems, would pour down stinking pitch,
For this description of thine honesty? A pox upon
it with turning up your eyelids, sigh a note and
She will indite him to some supper.
And I will follow, more for Silvia's love
I can speak English, lord, as well as you;
Double, double toil and trouble;
Recoil from your great stock.
You are a great deal abused in too bold a
The organs, though defunct and dead before,
Camest thou by this ill tidings? speak, thou wretch.
For all in vain comes counsel to his ear.
O, to what purpose dost thou hoard thy words,
Let him be the devil, an he will, I care not: give
To bring them to that prospect: damn them then,
SCENE III. The same. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's house.
Enter a Sergeant of a band with two Sentinels
Enter Constable
As you are friends, scholars and soldiers,
If it be husbanded with modesty.
that your younger brother Orlando hath a disposition
Yon king's to me like to my father's picture,
Have thrice disturb'd the quiet of our streets,
More, I prithee, more.
That we may call it early by and by.
What God will have discover'd for revenge;
I play'd the cheater for thy father's hand,
Forspent with toil, as runners with a race,
This Gloucester should be quickly rid the world,
Fly o'er our heads and downward look on us,
to-morrow, Sir Toby.
If you have any pity, grace, or manners,
What say you to't?
And let my sovereign, virtuous Henry,
Sure, all's effectless; yet nothing we'll omit
Shall see thy virtue witness'd every where.
If worthier friends had not prevented me.
Anon!
Here are a few of the unpleasant'st words
Exit
Before you had worn it out.
A savour that may strike the dullest nostril
Be stronger with thee than the name of wife?
There are pretty orders beginning, I can tell you:
As you threw caps up will he tumble down,
I bring consuming sorrow to thine age.
And study help for that which thou lament'st.
A worthy friend. The king has made him master
He's opposite to humanity. Come, shall we in,
Make all our trumpets speak; give them all breath,
Cast none away. That I shall clear myself,
It is a comforter.
Even so remorseless have they borne him hence;
For a fish without a fin, there's a fowl without a feather;
not. But, truly, these same whoreson devils do the
Enter Clown and FABIAN
I pray you, be not angry with me, madam,
Enter Host and BARDOLPH
transgressed against his valour; and my state that
I faint: O Iras, Charmian! 'tis no matter.
That gave't surmised shape. Why then, you princes,
O, kill me too!
Why would she have me kill'd?
To make a perfect woman, she you kill'd
You are the king's now.
Let Alcibiades know this of Timon,
Thou must be patient; we came crying hither:
With your fine fancies quaintly eche:
Alas, poor man! a million of beating may come to a
That, in this case of justice, my accusers,
ACT IV
What need we fear?
A prince most prudent, of an excellent
I greet thy love,
You'll cry for this, minion, if I beat the door down.
Cunning.
seven groats in mill-sixpences, and two Edward
Again possess her corpse, and on this stage,
sceptre for a leaden dagger, and thy precious rich
Says that you savour too much of your youth,
twenty to follow mine own teaching. The brain may
At this same ancient feast of Capulet's
And let her head fall into England's lap.
'Twere well
We trifle time: I pray thee, pursue sentence.
What would she have?
the divine forfeit of his soul upon oath, never
For here's a paper written in his hand,
your appointment, go in your place; if the encounter
In peace, to his utmost peril.
Or if thou hast not broke from company
I rode on: it is yours, because you liked it.
For, sure, my thoughts do hourly prophesy
with a curtsy.
Exeunt
Is Talbot slain, the Frenchmen's only scourge,
A business that this night may execute,
I rather do beseech you pardon me,
Ye white-limed walls! ye alehouse painted signs!
Of bringing back the prisoner.
Their precious stones new lost: became his guide,
Mistress Mary, if you prized my lady's favour at any
recovery of this drum, being not ignorant of the
Not mine to speak on 't.
Exit EUPHRONIUS
My heart is not confederate with my hand.
And cased as richly; in pace another Juno;
And chastise with the valour of my tongue
Will't not be?
Till Henry be more weak and I more strong,--
No more of that: he did so.
Ay, to me;
Until our stars that frown lend us a smile.
My traffic is sheets; when the kite builds, look to
With winds that sailors rail at.
Take her, or leave her?
o' th' ear: or if I can see my glove in his cap,
You to a long and well-deserved bed:
Your fire-new stamp of honour is scarce current.
The dove will peck the estridge; and I see still,
In the end of autumn turned to the rams,
unspotted soldiers: some peradventure have on them
That is no fleering tell-tale. Hold, my hand:
Exit Post
No grief did ever come so near thy heart
[Aside]                 Or this, or perish.
Exeunt TROILUS and AENEAS
SCENE II. The palace.
To make my small elves coats, and some keep back
Too proud to be so valiant.
Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable.
Ay, sir; there are a crew of wretched souls
Where he was to begin and give away
Enter a Messenger
Noise within. Enter WARWICK, SALISBURY, and many Commons
If Lucius live, he will requite your wrongs;
But smother'd it within my panting bulk,
thee away, translate thy life into death, thy
Her whip of cricket's bone, the lash of film,
fox; and for womanhood, Maid Marian may be the
To feast with me and see me at my tent.
I most unfeignedly beseech your lordship to make
heart was not consenting to.
Takes hold of the hand of the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go.
prophecy, hark you: I advise you, let me not find
Thanks, fortune, yet, that, after all my crosses,
The daughter of a king, my drops of tears
Of direst cruelty! make thick my blood;
the verity of it is in strong suspicion: has the king
Farewell, my lord. Light to my chamber, ho!
The masters of some merchant and the merchant
Nay, but I bar to-night: you shall not gauge me
Give up thy staff: Henry will to himself
Find out, and he will take it.
Where thou shalt find me, sad and solitary.
Of his queen mother, which for more probation
O sides, you are too tough;
The standing of his body.
And, as I earnestly did fix mine eye
It is so. Are there balance here to weigh
Upon our joint and several dignities.
Of one or both of us the time is come.
Until they hear the order of his death.
Not for thy fairy kingdom. Fairies, away!
France, thou shalt rue this treason with thy tears,
Suggest but truth to my divining thoughts,
Bewitch your hearts; be wise and circumspect.
To have me filch it?
Enter ARIEL, invisible, playing solemn music
Be thou a prey unto the house of York,
thee in grace and the other brings thee out.
My tear-stain'd eyes to see her miseries.
Where valiant Talbot above human thought
Dream on, dream on, of bloody deeds and death:
Since presently your souls must part your bodies--
Indeed, my lord, it follow'd hard upon.
Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence attended; the two Frenchmen, with a troop of soldiers.
As thou'lt desire; and then myself, I chiefly,
O, for the love of laughter, let him fetch his drum;
hast not slept to-night? would he not, a naughty
O, that men's ears should be
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
Doth speak sufficiently he's gone to travel.
Have by my hands of life bereaved him.
And Longaville was for my service born.
You have said, sir.
The tongue of Isabel. She's come to know
O sweet Paulina,
Have patience, noble duke; I may not open;
Thy mantle good,
Was beastly dumb'd by him.
bound to your answer? this learned constable is
To cross the seas to England and be crown'd
Approach, ye Furies fell!
Great Glamis! worthy Cawdor!
That robs thee of thy goodness! If thou dost
That feelingly persuade me what I am.'
How durst you, villains, bring it from the dresser,
Instructs you how to adore the heavens and bows you
That late thou gavest me; for Mercutio's soul
Guiltier than him they try. What's open made to justice,
heaven, I do love: and it hath taught me to rhyme
Protest my ears were never better fed
Sweet ornament that decks a thing divine!
In heavy satisfaction and would never
Please your highness, posts
And did forsake her: she had a song of 'willow;'
Who, I? alas, it is my vice, my fault:
O Lord, sir! why, there't serves well again.
Till I do challenge it. Give him the crowns:
Whose health and royalty I pray for.
An Englishman?
Forthwith a power of English shall we levy;
He hath confessed: away with him! he's a villain
should do for clients her fitment, and do me the
Could not with graceful eyes attend those wars
But like a comet I was wonder'd at;
Why, this it is to be a peevish girl,
It may be thought we held him carelessly,
Where the impression of mine eye infixing,
And then when poison'd hours had bound me up
'Tis but surmised whiles thou art standing by,
Can gripe the sacred handle of our sceptre,
As many as be here of pander's hall,
A shorter time shall send me to you, lords:
What sayest thou, Biondello?
Well hath your highness seen into this duke;
Is Brutus sick? and is it physical
As how I came into that desert place:--
And that in way of caution, I must tell you,
the curses he shall have, the tortures he shall
Dark needs no candles now, for dark is light.
Vanquish'd thereto by the fair grace and speech
A thousand crowns, or else lay down your head.
Buy thou a rope and bring it home to me.
Left solely heir to all his lands and goods,
Why, here begins his morning story right;
There make before them. Look, the good man weeps!
Thou darest not, for thy own.
And so, God be with him! Here comes newer comfort.
And I have made a happy peace with him;
I would I were, to be revenged on thee.
Enter LUCIO and two Gentlemen
Have lost a brace of kinsmen: all are punish'd.
Well, my lord.
Begun to tell me what I am, but stopp'd
Has these poor men in question. Never saw I
Stabbing him
His vacancy with his voluptuousness,
Which should perceive nothing but love from us,
their christen names, as Tom, Dick, and Francis.
I will not fail your ladyship. Good morrow, gentle lady.
Committed by your person and your followers
They have chose a consul that will from them take
I think no less. Good morrow to your lordship.
I never read but England's kings have had
For shame, thou helding of a devilish spirit,
You must away to-night.
Mightst thou perceive austerely in his eye
A little gale will soon disperse that cloud
himself on the expectation of plenty: come in
The 'solus' in thy teeth, and in thy throat,
Wings and no eyes figure unheedy haste:
By heaven, it shall not go!
So rare a wonder'd father and a wife
Alas, he hath no home, no place to fly to;
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
distant time stood, as it were, in a fruit-dish, a
Who, with dagger of lath,
The grass whereon thou tread'st the presence strew'd,
Strike on the tinder, ho!
And added to the gall. O Lear, Lear, Lear!
I laugh'd him into patience; and next morn,
And will not suffer us to fetch him out,
That meat was made for mouths, that the gods sent not
Some bring the murder'd body, some the murderers:
Why, these are very crotchets that he speaks;
A plaguing mischief light on Charles and thee!
He is of a very melancholy disposition.
only, Mistress Ford, in the simple
As they fly by them with their woven wings.
in tears! The great dignity that his valour hath
If on my credit you dare build so far
Who taught you this?
Sole daughter unto Lionel Duke of Clarence:
So angle we for Beatrice; who even now
Therefore bring forth the soldiers of our prize;
Now Mercury endue thee with leasing, for thou
Ravish'd and wrong'd, as Philomela was,
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
Stay, you that bear the corse, and set it down.
I then, all smarting with my wounds being cold,
conceits shall govern.
But, O malignant and ill-boding stars!
An I thought that, I'ld forswear it. I'll ride home
When I first moved you.
suspicious;
And so riveted with faith unto your flesh.
As, in reproof of many tales devised,
Came there a certain lord, neat, and trimly dress'd,
habit, but your words show you a madman. Why, sir,
Enter Haberdasher
That, by confessing them, the souls of men
Let each man do his best: and here draw I
that I utterly deny. If sack and sugar be a fault,
That thus we die, while remiss traitors sleep.
But now my heavy conscience sinks my knee,
If not Achilles, sir,
Might I but through my prison once a day
Wilt thou provoke me? then have at thee, boy!
And your unthought-of Harry chance to meet.
What towns of any moment but we have?
And, for my love, I pray you wrong me not.
say him nay.
If the event o' the journey
That will ask some tears in the true performing of
Amen!
Look, how this ring encompasseth finger.
I mean your malice, know, officious lords,
I say, they nourish'd disobedience, fed
than you'ld think, sister.
Enter other Servants
Good time of day unto your royal grace!
If it be so, Laertes--
Stand farther. Come, proceed.
As he forth walked on his way:--
them. I begin to find an idle and fond bondage
Bear hence his body; I will help to bury it.
And pardon, father, for I knew not thee!
'Tis spoken well.
Here PROSPERO discovers FERDINAND and MIRANDA playing at chess
thou love such a woman? What, to make thee an
Canst thou not speak? O traitors! murderers!
Unless she gave it to yourself in bed,
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
Of unrelenting Clifford and the queen,
better told.
You have holp to ravish your own daughters and
Some thousands of these logs and pile them up,
and there is also another device in my prain, which
Which was sometime his general; who loved him
Mistress Page would desire you to send her your
I cannot stay thanksgiving.
You cloudy princes and heart-sorrowing peers,
Your mistress bears well.
It shall;
Than any that draws breath in Italy.
Being vex'd a sea nourish'd with lovers' tears:
Thou hast harp'd my fear aright: but one
CARDINAL
In solemn show attend this funeral;
And freely urge against me.
I spy comfort; I cry bail. Here's a gentleman and a
Put your grace in your pocket, sir, for this once,
Or else to wed Demetrius, as he would;
But, my good lord, your grace's word shall serve,
Silence, good mother; hear the embassy.
Let me pass quietly:
According to the gift which bounteous nature
Exit Messenger
Thou teachest me. Minion, your dear lies dead,
The regent conquers, and the Frenchmen fly.
Carouse full measure to her maidenhead,
No? a dozen times at least.
Cried fame and honour on him. What's the matter?
It will not be avoided but by this.
The secret whispers of each other's watch:
That he is dead, good Warwick, 'tis too true;
I tell thee, Catesby--
Then speak the truth by her; if not divine,
But rather reason thus with reason fetter,
Gave thee no instance why thou shouldst do treason,
of the dog-days now reign in's nose; all that stand
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
Twelve year since, Miranda, twelve year since,
As to advance this jewel; accept it and wear it,
Measure our confines with such peaceful steps?
I may go the finer, I will live a bachelor.
SCENE II. The same. The council-chamber.
Harry of Hereford, Lancaster and Derby,
Whose blood is fet from fathers of war-proof!
I am to find you thus: I have been to seek you.
Where is that slave
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
From Scotland am I stol'n, even of pure love,
No, sir, there are moe with him.
The ringleader and head of all this rout,
Hold up thy hand, make signal of thy hope.
Draw near,
Where she remains now sick.
Dreading the curse that money may buy out;
Not a whit, we defy augury: there's a special
Rising
For ever may my knees grow to the earth,
If he be gone, he'll make his grave a bed;
What though the mast be now blown overboard,
In thy best robes uncover'd on the bier
Your queen and I are devils: yet go on;
A fellow almost damn'd in a fair wife;
O, my good lord, why are you thus alone?
Shall have more vices than it had before,
To execute the charge my father gave me
Or any taint of vice whose strong corruption
But in thy fortunes am unlearn'd and strange.
The triumph of his pledge.
You are naught, you are naught: I'll mark the play.
Only in bone, that none may look on you!
Biron is one of the votaries with the king; and here
War with good counsel, set the world at nought;
Well, fare you well: we shall have the freer wooing
Now, for our consciences, the arms are fair,
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON, braving
Sweet majesty, vouchsafe me,--
To ANTONIO
Where I left reading? Here it is, I think.
Prescribe to other as each other's leech.
Quickly, quickly! is the buck-basket--
I do desire it with all my heart; and I hope it is
at the door: shall I let them in?
Ay, and a subtle; as he most learnedly delivered.
Will you go see her?
And there I left him tranced.
To see what friends are living, who are dead.
thyme, supply it with one gender of herbs, or
Fear not, my lord, I'll play the orator
Ay, touch him; there's the vein.
And thither will I bring thee, Valentine.
Prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk:
I trod upon a worm against my will,
Good queen; I say good queen;
in the stable.
Than thee with wantonness: now doth thy honour stand
That e'er received gift from him:
A grievous burthen was thy birth to me;
And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds
To see a king transformed to a gnat!
The father, all whose joy is nothing else
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Error i' the bill, sir; error i' the bill.
charge-house on the top of the mountain?
I'll show your grace the strangest sight--
Thou'rt a tall fellow: hold thee that to drink.
many in our land by the name of pitch: this pitch,
Enter a Messenger
Shut door upon me, and so give me up
Of what coarse metal ye are moulded, envy:
Your man and you are marvellous merry, sir.
to hear it.
Exeunt
I promise you, I scarcely know myself:
To second all his plot. I do assure you
Do on the oak, hive with one winter's brush
What have I kept back?
The watch-dogs bark!
And fight and die is death destroying death;
Be thou as lightning in the eyes of France;
What hast thou done? thou hast mistaken quite
Faith, as you say, there's small choice in rotten
Our pleasure?
What seal is that, that hangs without thy bosom?
Do you confess the bond?
And rather muse than ask why I entreat you,
So disguise shall, by the disguised,
conscience, now, is it not?
The commons will not then be satisfied.
do you know me?
Come short of what he did.
Wounded to death.
[Aside]  Pray God defend me! A little thing would
makes a man a coward: a man cannot steal, but it
And yet no day without a deed to crown it.
ACT V
This is my servant: hear him, noble prince.
Dark-working sorcerers that change the mind,
And make conceive a bark of baser kind
Your lack of love or bounty, you were straited
On her kind nursery. Hence, and avoid my sight!
Lay on my bed my wedding sheets: remember;
Pray you, give me my gown; or else keep it in your arms.
Though he had bit me, should have stood that night
One care abroad; he would have all as merry
continually; 'tis her command.
So you may put a man in your belly.
thine:' which word thou shalt no sooner bless mine
Do you busy yourself about that?
On forfeit of my hands, my head, my heart:
Another king! they grow like Hydra's heads:
I had rather give my body than my soul.
Hark ye, lords; ye see I have given her physic,
By this account then Margaret may win him;
No more than my residing here at Rome
too for your society.
Or more than any living man could bear.
Shapes faults that are not--that your wisdom yet,
Because thy father Henry did usurp;
else holds fashion: a burning devil take them!
SCENE I. Ely House.
Than Harry Percy's wife: constant you are,
shoe him himself. I am much afeard my lady his
Amen. Whereupon I will show you a chamber with a
The gracious mark o' the land, you have obscured
Of Costard.
For Oberon is passing fell and wrath,
yourselves, no matter; for we must not seem to
Make raging battery upon shores of flint.'
But if you do, you'll make me wish a sin,
Makes many Thetis' sons.
Have I heard groan and drop: then know me not,
Edward Plantagenet, arise a knight;
And draw within the compass of suspect
Rating myself at nothing, you shall see
He is the wiser man, master doctor: he is a curer of
That may give furtherance to our expedition;
A breed for barren metal of his friend?
Marcius coming home!
The gods preserve our noble tribunes! Come.
Without more mercy, to its own protection
Call up my brother. O, would you had had her!
With folded arms. This poor right hand of mine
And stood within the blank of his displeasure
An earnest advocate to plead for him.
Our musty superfluity. See, our best elders.
In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate
That I, dear brother, be now ta'en for you!
The freezing hours away? We have seen nothing;
That your good beauties be the happy cause
I'll never pause again, never stand still,
And I can speak of the disturbances
Well, I will go;
The Song
And, by the glorious worth of my descent,
God keep your lordship in that gracious mind!
And sanctify the numbers.
Sir, his stoutness
The instances that second marriage move
Against your vain assault.
bombard that would shed his liquor. If it
Pray now, no more.
That, hearing of her beauty and her wit,
looks pale, as if a bear were at his heels.
Up in the air, crown'd with the golden sun,
Ay, lord; she will become thy bed, I warrant.
I wrote the letter that thy father found
Doth oft close in pollution, yet of thee
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive;  They are the ground, the books, the academes From whence doth spring the true Promethean fire
A noble temper dost thou show in this;
You envy my advancement and my friends':
Helen, to you our minds we will unfold:
Things for the cook, sir; but I know not what.
There is Douglas and Lord Mortimer.
Since fate, against thy better disposition,
The precious jewel of thy home return.
It is.
Lest, growing ruinous, the building fall
Sends thee this word,--that, if thou love thy sons,
Speaks his own standing! what a mental power
Our tears are not yet brew'd.
For half thy wealth, it is Antonio's;
maidenhood, cannot for all that dissuade succession,
Within their innocent alabaster arms:
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
The Earl of Westmoreland set forth to-day;
But who is with him?
Might with effects of them follow our friends,
beast, I say:--I was sending to use Lord Timon
any matter of weight chances, call up me: keep your
Confound themselves. 'Tis strange that death
Most heartily to pray for her.
Seeing that death, a necessary end,
Shall give a holiness, a purity,
He goes before me and still dares me on:
Madam, 's enough for you:
That work for bread upon Athenian stalls,
With what addition?
Thy brother Edward, and thyself the sea
I mean, your voice,--for crowning of the king.
I ne'er saw this before.
should freelier rejoice in that absence wherein he
But in the way of bargain, mark ye me,
Who having into truth, by telling of it,
might take two thieves kissing.
The kiss you take is better than you give;
Sweet Lord Longaville, rein thy tongue.
Nay, sir, but hear me on.
And see the ambush of our friends be strong;
O, now, let Richmond and Elizabeth,
But, true it is, from France there comes a power
For those defects I have before rehearsed,
Exit
In Ross and Willoughby, wanting your company,
That touch me near, wherein thou must be secret.
would sleep till I waked him, you should half his
Lord Strange of Blackmere, Lord Verdun of Alton,
Suffer't, and live with such as cannot rule
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
Peace, ho! Caesar speaks.
More, more, I prithee, more.
O, yes, my lord, but very idle words:
In this man's place before him?
had ne'er come here.
Exeunt DOCTOR CAIUS and RUGBY
shalt hear; 'tis in three parts.
This pausingly ensued: neither the king nor's heirs,
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Mark how he trembles in his ecstasy!
Whiles Warwick tells his title, smooths the wrong,
Very vilely in the morning, when he is sober, and
Thyself domestic officers--thine enemy:
He slily stole away and left his men:
If he fall in, good night! or sink or swim:
Signior, hang! base muleters of France!
Mistress Ford, and requests your company.
his happier affairs may be, are to me unknown: but I
Where were her life? she durst not call me so,
Makes vow before his uncle never more
I will bring in the empress and her sons,
The cygnet's down is harsh and spirit of sense
married of him than of another: for he is not like
God save the king! Will no man say amen?
Or any other ground inhabitable,
Exit
And I'll sleep.
Go, then; for 'tis in vain
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Oppose himself against a troop of kerns,
If sorrow can admit society,
Not this hour, lieutenant; 'tis not yet ten o' the
And henceforth I am thy true servitor:
Do thy right nature.
Show thee a jay's nest and instruct thee how
I sing but after you.
Enter CALIBAN, STEPHANO, and TRINCULO
What think you on't?
With daily prayers all to that effect.
Enter STANLEY
I am so sorry for my trespass made
Where I may think the remnant of my thoughts
Let him depart; his passport shall be made
I weigh'd the danger which my realms stood in
Exit
On, good Camillo.
As true as I believe you think them false
Alarum. Exeunt
Nay, the man hath no wit that cannot, from the
An if I could, what should I get therefore?
With saints dost bait thy hook! Most dangerous
Of hostile paces: those opposed eyes,
And his pure soul unto his captain Christ,
Enter two Gentlemen
Your eyes, half out, weep out at Pandar's fall;
Those men are happy; and so are all are near her.
This was lofty! Now name the rest of the players.
Enter Lion and Moonshine
Then give my charge up to Sir Nicholas Vaux,
Why, good sir?
Were growing time once ripen'd to my will.
Haste still pays haste, and leisure answers leisure;
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
meddle with no tradesman's matters, nor women's
I'll to my queen and beg her Indian boy;
Be perfect.
Wither one rose, and let the other flourish;
snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
A noble earl and many a creature else
But reverence to your calling makes me modest.
He hath released him, Isabel, from the world:
God keep the prince from all the pack of you!
jangling of the bells, that he should never have
BISHOP
Oppressed nature sleeps:
the fifth, if I.
Think not, although in writing I preferr'd
And, now I am remember'd, scorn'd at me:
'Tis, then, because thou dost not keep a dog,
That God, the law, my honour and her love,
Use our commission in his utmost force.
Hear me speak:
Look where he comes.
Lord Timon's?
I shall do that that is reason.
To be spoke to but by the recorder.
Learned and reverend fathers of his order,
His head is off and sent to Angelo.
To rive their dangerous artillery
May prove coherent. Every night he comes
Take but possession of her with a touch:
Ay, he.
Ay, the bolting, but you must tarry the leavening.
Perchance he's hurt i' the battle.
Grave tribunes, once more I entreat of you,--
Behind the tuft of pines I met them; never
What's his weapon?
That we must stand and play the murderer in?
Till it hath travell'd and is mirror'd there
I have had feeling of my cousin's wrongs
I wonder at this haste; that I must wed
Prithee now, say you will, and go about it.
by a gentleman his companion.
God make your majesty joyful as you have been!
And tell false Edward, thy supposed king,
So do the kings of France unto this day;
which, peradventure not marked or not laughed at,
conscionable than in putting on the mere form of
Is the prince there in person?
Which, pardon me, I do not mean to read--
Gave't you the king?
She has a huswife's hand; but that's no matter:
And rouse from sleep that fell anatomy
gracious Duncan
Unfit to hear moral philosophy:
second conference, and I will bring from thence
Is practise only. Give me my servant forth.
It speaks against her with the other proofs.
slubber the gloss of your new fortunes with this
Remember what I tell you.
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en
Think you my uncle did dissemble, grandam?
Upon this spotted and inconstant man.
I will about it straight;
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse with his rapier drawn, and DROMIO of Syracuse
have so much experience for my pains, and so, with
Lascivious metres, to whose venom sound
Now is the sun upon the highmost hill
To force a spotless virgin's chastity,
There's scarce a bush.
Come, knock and enter; and no sooner in,
A couching lion and a ramping cat,
his soldiership I know not; except, in that country
term and term and then they perceive not how Time moves.
Bows not his vassal head and strucken blind
How will my mother for a father's death
Upon his honour'd finger, to attain
What! wherein Talbot overcame? is't so?
To show the love and duty that I bear you
for he is very slow-gaited. But I go.
No more pertains to me, my lord, than you.
Sir, you are music's master.
county. What fashion will you wear the garland of?
That holy duty, out of dear respect,
that hath been long studying at Rheims; as cunning
Enter ROMEO
My wife and children's ghosts will haunt me still.
Which forced marriage would have brought upon her.
Turns to a wild of nothing, save of joy,
Good time of day unto my gracious lord!
Look you, the worm is not to be trusted but in the
To tell this story, that you might excuse
Our legions are brim-full, our cause is ripe:
'Twould move me sooner.
My lord, dispatch; read o'er these articles.
Well; what further?
I will give you the minstrel.
DON
We, having now the best at Barnet field,
This tongue that runs so roundly in thy head
What feats he did that day: then shall our names.
And pleased with what he gets,
Talbot is taken, whom we wont to fear:
hand; my words are as fun of peace as matter.
of my complexion. Besides, she uses me with a more
CLIFFORD groans, and dies
Mine speak of seventy senators that died
are chosen, they are glad to choose me for them; I
And am I then a man to be beloved?
[To the Watch]  Bring you these fellows on. We'll
Exit from the walls
Shall not in their issue stand;
You may, by marrying.
Arm it in rags, a pigmy's straw does pierce it.
A huge translation of hypocrisy,
Is thicker than a cuckold's horn,--or heard,--
Then give me leave to have prerogative;
I am no loathsome leper; look on me.
Maud, Bridget, Marian, Cicel, Gillian, Ginn!
What was he that did make it? See, my lord,
Sir, you have saved my longing, and I feed
the knight is not here; now he shall see his own foolery.
report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.
Obey, audacious traitor; kneel for grace.
Salutation and greeting to you all!
Is much upon my fashion.
And with the juice of this I'll streak her eyes,
An apple, cleft in two, is not more twin
Untimely ripp'd.
Till their soul-fearing clamours have brawl'd down
What dream'd my lord? tell me, and I'll requite it
Justice with favour have I always done;
My penance is to call Lucetta back
Ere three days pass, which hath as long loved me
Clubs, bills, and partisans! strike! beat them down!
That danger shall seem sport, and I will go.
God save King Harry, unking'd Richard says,
Exeunt
Thou dearest Perdita,
Until my mis-shaped trunk that bears this head
'had'! how sad a passage 'tis!--whose skill was
Exeunt BOYET and MARIA
that goes of his having.
What dost thou know?
And points at them for his.
ANTIPHOLUS
Yet god Achilles still cries 'Excellent!
Let every eye negotiate for itself
HERMIONE comes down
He named Sebastian: I my brother know
Why, Phaeton,--for thou art Merops' son,--
Though all these English and their discipline
That leaves the print of blood where'er it walks.
Merely, my lord.
What of his heart perceive you in his face
Fleance is 'scaped.
hope, here is a play fitted.
Re-enter First Murderer
Will piece up in himself.
wore three-pile; but now I am out of service:
That I repair to Rome, I am content.
Lorenzo and his amorous Jessica:
I say, a devil. Thinkest thou, Hortensio, though
So now, fair prince of Troy, I bid good night.
Can sick men play so nicely with their names?
Else might the world convince of levity
SCENE II. The same. The DUKE's palace.
Why, then, young Bertram, take her; she's thy wife.
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
Content, content.
And so they are: alas, that they are so;
How dost thou like this jewel, Apemantus?
Faith, sir, he did love her; but how?
Look you sad, friends?
That I do groan withal. Thou art to die.
Peaseblossom! Cobweb! Moth! and Mustardseed!
Are like invulnerable. If you could hurt,
the lists of the army will maintain upon Edmund,
O, how I love thee! how I dote on thee!
Yea, and forswore himself,--which Jesu pardon!--
Ay, when the special thing is well obtain'd,
believe all that they say, shall never be saved by
Now set the teeth and stretch the nostril wide,
He had, my lord: and when he ran in here,
And of it left his son imperial lord.
Nor with sour looks afflict his gentle heart.
which is left of him what he is, fetch me to the
Nurse!
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven;
May be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy,
That day appear'd; and oft before gave audience,
Old Signior Gremio has in Padua;
Copp'd hills towards heaven, to tell the earth is throng'd
Trumpet sounds
Admired Octavia: great Mark Antony
A cherry lip, a bonny eye, a passing pleasing tongue;
Whom he redeem'd from prison: all these
Enter DUKE OF AUMERLE
But they will quake and tremble all this day.
This matter of marrying his king's daughter, wherein
I guess not.
So first the harmless sheep doth yield his fleece
yourself ready in your cabin for the mischance of
But kneels and holds up bands for fellowship,
will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you,
Shall be eternized in all age to come.
Thou shalt not live to brag what we have offer'd.
Yet oftentimes it doth present harsh rage,
Then, masters, look to see a troublous world.
So many guests invite as here are writ.
Which I presume shall render you no blame
In nature's infinite book of secrecy
You have a double tongue within your mask,
How fares your grace?
What's the matter?
If aught within that little seeming substance,
Thy son by this hath married. Wonder not,
fire and water for such a kind heart. But yet I
I'll venture one have-at-him.
In rank Achilles must or now be cropp'd,
is not politic in the commonwealth of nature to
garments, how you disgraced her, when you should
Lives in death with glorious fame.
I'll have thy beauty scratch'd with briers, and made
Hate me! wherefore? O me! what news, my love!
Exit Bardolph
They said they were an-hungry; sigh'd forth proverbs,
And, for the most, become much more the better
Ay, by my sceptre and my hopes of heaven.
Ajax renown'd. O heavens, what some men do,
Ay, but, by your leave, not before me; the
These your unusual weeds to each part of you
Where's our general?
talk with Margaret,
We are descried; they'll mock us now downright.
Your cake there is warm within; you stand here in the cold:
To encounter me with orisons, for then
Poor prattler, how thou talk'st!
Over your friend that loves you.
I warrant thee.
'When he,' quoth she, 'shall split thy heart with sorrow,
merely poison! Nothing I'll bear from thee,
And so 'tis.
Now, for my life, Hortensio fears his widow.
Were not so rich a jewel. Thou wast a soldier
For this time, all the rest depart away:
See you these, husband? do not these fair yokes
christom child; a' parted even just between twelve
To the madding of her lord. On her left breast
My brother Troilus lodges there to-night:
Caesar and Lepidus have made wars upon Pompey.
Why, master mayor, why stand you in a doubt?
Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning
Sometimes our brother's wife. This respite shook
To speak before your time. Proceed.
This cause of Rome and chastised with arms
But his performance, as he is now, nothing:
While I spare speech, which something now
Master-Gunner	Sirrah, thou know'st how Orleans is besieged,
Amen, so you be none.
live, forget to drink after thee.
Yes, troth, and troth; you would not be a queen?
No richer in return.
That he was never trained up in arms.
At which appear'd against him his surveyor;
Now, by this maiden blossom in my hand,
her.
That you should fashion, wrest, or bow your reading,
Stand forth, Demetrius. My noble lord,
Than baits to fish, or honey-stalks to sheep,
By the triple Hecate's team,
I'll follow instantly.
Shall we be thus afflicted in his wreaks,
That is the way to lay the city flat;
this reason: His master would be served before a
Enter HECTOR
And take thy office from thee, on my peril.
Romeo shall thank thee, daughter, for us both.
And ours with thine, befall what fortune will.
born under Saturn, goest about to apply a moral
Write down Prince John a villain. Why, this is flat
good purpose. Doth your honour mark his face?
In spring time,  and c.
Unto the tranect, to the common ferry
And purchase friends and give to courtezans,
'Who ever loved that loved not at first sight?'
Ambitious Warwick, let thy betters speak.
What work's, my countrymen, in hand? where go you
Which he has put upon't!
plebeians: I will be bold to take my leave of you.
O Clifford, but bethink thee once again,
His silence will sit drooping.
Rid all the sea of pirates; then, to send
And they have seized Marina. Let her go:
here's a night pities neither wise man nor fool.
Than in our priest-like fasts: therefore I'll watch him
But seek revenge on Edward's mockery.
Re-enter OTHELLO
And darts his light through every guilty hole,
Joy and all comfort in your sacred breast!
My gracious lord,--
How sweet a thing it is to wear a crown;
Enthroned i' the market-place, did sit alone,
Sir, as I told you always, her beauty and her brain
It adds a precious seeing to the eye;
Forborne the getting of a lawful race,
As in a theatre, whence they gape and point
It was not brought me, my lord; there's the
Than if not look'd on. I will lead the way.
herrings; the husband's the bigger: I am indeed not
Thou foolish friar, and thou pernicious woman,
To let him slip at will.
Tooth that poisons if it bite;
That I shall hardly spare a pound of flesh
For what you seem to fear: so, the gods keep you,
Good my lord, be quiet.
O, let us pay the time but needful woe,
If it be so,
O'erhang and jutty his confounded base,
I'll starve ere I'll rob a foot further. An 'twere
By heavenly synod was devised,
Enter OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, and their army
I will say of it,
No, my lord, I'll fight.
Prester John's foot, fetch you a hair off the great
And so will I.
If this austere insociable life
Then broke I from the officers that led me,
That he did plead in earnest? yea or no?
My visor is Philemon's roof; within the house is Jove.
O foolish Cressid! I might have still held off,
Weeps over them and wrings his hapless hands
The garden here is more convenient.
What, boy!
which is as much to say as, let the magistrates be
Right ill-disposed in brawl ridiculous,
Is yet unanswer'd. I will to your father:
Can Helenus fight, uncle?
I would fain know what you have to say.
And in submission will attend on her.
Supposing that they saw the king's ship wreck'd
Unto the commons whom thou hast misled;
That she did give me, whose posy was
I'll keep shut: now, of another thing she may, and
And when your mistress hears thus much from you,
But how camest thou by this ring? At my depart
being governed, as the sea is, by our noble and
Peas and beans are as dank here as a dog, and that
And dare be bold to weep for Buckingham,
Did they, quoth you? Who sees the heavenly Rosaline,
Exeunt
This sessions, to our great grief we pronounce,
It lies as sightly on the back of him
They lead him out forcibly
He's all my exercise, my mirth, my matter,
None do you like but an effeminate prince,
I play the torturer, by small and small
My cousin Vernon, welcome, by my soul.
The letter was not nice but full of charge
have not seen him this two days.
Not weighing well the end; if ever fearful
Not to behold--
Inform'd them! Dost thou understand me, man?
This is desperate, sir.
Enter two Senators and Tribunes
Have scared thy husband from the use of wits.
or strip your sword stark naked; for meddle you
Merely in hate, 'gainst any of us all,
In sight of England and her lordly peers,
and already appearing in the blossoms of their fortune.
And yet I know not how conceit may rob
Gross fools as he,
Do you think I'll be forsworn?
What! art thou, like the adder, waxen deaf?
There's none but witches do inhabit here;
Go to, woman!
So, Ilion, fall thou next! now, Troy, sink down!
not in the contents.
Though no man lesser fears the Greeks than I
After summer merrily.
That raught at mountains with outstretched arms,
But instruments of some more mightier member
Music
Now fare you well, good sir.
Against the Greeks that would have enter'd Troy.
Wherefore is Charles impatient with his friend!
And are by me with child,'  and c. This is done:
For so this side of our known world esteem'd him--
And pity her for her good father's sake;
Cominius, no.
And spit it bleeding in his high disgrace,
Whose care is gone before to bid us welcome:
I'll tell him what you say, my lord.
indeed and sung lamentably.
that shall drive some of them to a non-come: only
Against the bosom of the Prince of Wales:
Our fine musician groweth amorous.
beats me, and I rail at him: O, worthy satisfaction!
What kind of catechising call you this?
Some must go off: and yet, by these I see,
here in the forest on the duke your father.
Though light, take pieces for the figure's sake:
ANTIPHOLUS
Thou hold'st a place, for which the pained'st fiend
For 'tis to such a thing,--
Marry, this, sir, is proclaim'd through all our host:
Have done the time more benefit and graced
Enter Chorus
Be sure of that,--two other husbands.
have more flesh than another man, and therefore more
Be so perfidious!--he whom next thyself
She has spoke what she should not, I am sure of
And every godfather can give a name.
O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself!
I must be here confined by you,
Have just our theme of woe; but for the miracle,
We have given order to be next our own.
How do you now?
The sight of any of the house of York
To temper poisons for her, still pretending
I am no fee'd post, lady; keep your purse:
Though I should swear I saw't: 'tis very much:
Save in aspect, hath all offence seal'd up;
Where folly now possesses? Do thou work:
As may compact it more. Get you gone;
You understand me not that tell me so:
philosophers hold that the lips is parcel of the
Enter BIANCA
What, do we meet together?
that have been more kindly beholding to you than
Unto an enemy's triumph.
Mingled his royalty with capering fools,
The air hath got into my deadly wounds,
A benefit in this change; but if you seek
you kiss your hands: that courtesy would be
Howbeit they would hold up this Salique law
Were best he do it secretly, alone.
Juno and Ceres whisper, and send Iris on employment
As then your force did. Take that life, beseech you,
Is there no voice more worthy than my own
Out, rascal dogs!
Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,
Which are to France the spies and speculations
And ne'er have spoke a loving word to you;
my prayers; but I cannot go thither.
When, Harry, when?
I know it well, sir; you have an exchequer of words,
Gives him a letter
To draw from her a prayer of earnest heart
The words would add more anguish than the wounds.
Withdraw into a chamber by yourselves,
Whose proof, nor yells of mothers, maids, nor babes,
This was the noblest Roman of them all:
After the general, I beseech you next
Melodious birds sings madrigals;
If it be so, you have wound a goodly clew;
How sweet a plant have you untimely cropp'd!
Come, sir,
Why, Helen, thou shalt have my leave and love,
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
her coffin! No news of them? Why, so: and I know
If he do, the rich shall have more.
When blood is nipp'd and ways be foul,
Child of integrity, hath from my soul
Enter, at a distance, Host, and JULIA in boy's clothes
What know believe, and what I can redress,
Find fairer fortune, if you ever wed!
[To SICINIUS]  You shall stay too: I would I had the power
We give thee for reward a thousand marks,
Enter a Roman and a Volsce, meeting
As in your royal speech.
Than was his will to get me, as I think.
The prime man of the state? I pray you, tell me,
Are arch'd so high that giants may jet through
Adieu, good man devil.
Does't not go well? Cassio hath beaten thee.
Enter FERDINAND, bearing a log
Go, get you gone; and pray be careful all,
This day should Clarence closely be mew'd up,
And manhood is call'd foolery, when it stands
Fair Philomela, she but lost her tongue,
their will;
Fear not, Cesario; take thy fortunes up;
our assistants, at the king's command, and this most
Her sober virtue, years and modesty,
Since I suppose we are made to be no stronger
To meet her new-beloved any where:
slaughter'd,
the commodity wages not with the danger: therefore,
And 'tis no little reason bids us speed,
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE, HORATIO, and a Gentleman
Of courts, of princes, of the tricks in war:
And I shall show you peace and fair-faced league;
With ships made cities, condemn myself to lack
Even so. What are you?
Of hounds and echo in conjunction.
Amen. Where's Achilles?
so honourable a grave as to stuff a botcher's
Come, go we to the king; our power is ready;
And justly and religiously unfold
I know you do not love me; for your sisters
As he controll'd the war; but one of these--
Indeed, left nothing fitting for the purpose
Subdues and properties to his love and tendance
Will not offend thee.
Jaques Chatillon, Rambures, Vaudemont,
Beware the ides of March.
Here, here, here he comes.
Of us too much beloved. Let us be clear'd
Lord Regent, and redoubted Burgundy,
[Aside]  To have smelt like a fool.
He had the wit which I can well observe
way of waste, attempt us again.
What now?
To-morrow yield up rule, resign my life,
A thing devised by the enemy.
Her madness hath the oddest frame of sense,
The flowers fair ladies, and thy steps no more
Where you have never come, or sent it us
Nay, good Sir Toby.
And with our fair entreaties haste them on.
So with his steerage shall your thoughts grow on,--
So long as I could see.
As that same ague which hath made you lean.
That valour is the chiefest virtue, and
Sweet royalty, bestow on me the sense of hearing.
Saying, 'Cousin Toby, my fortunes having cast me on
Take what wife you will to bed,
As they have often given. Here is Ulysses;
I hope he be in love.
Lead off this ground; and let's make further search
Lychorida, no tears:
Blood hath bought blood and blows have answered blows;
Willing to leave their burthen. Reach a chair:
Alas, it cried 'Give me some drink, Titinius,'
Though therein you can never be too noble,
will not use them.
Whose hand soever lanced their tender hearts,
To take the one the other, by some chance,
Pompey the Great and all his dignities
SCENE IX. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
'Commend me to your master'--and the cap
Unlike the ruler of a commonweal.
He that takes that doth take my heart withal.
Since they love men in arms as well as beds.
Those palates who, not yet two summers younger,
Marry, I'll teach you: think yourself a baby;
better fool.
Marry, we were sent for to the justices.
The match between Sir Thurio and my daughter.
If, in thy wisdom, thou canst give no help,
If it be sin to say so, I yoke me
Banish'd the kingdom! Patience, is that letter,
Of his bones are coral made;
Not willing any longer conference,
From whence 'tis nourish'd: the fire i' the flint
'This is put forth too truly:' besides, I have stay'd
believe, as cold a night as 'tis, he could wish
Here comes your man; now is your husband nigh.
make them bleed, and then to beslubber our garments
I cannot give you less.
be granted to be much at one. But, Kate, dost thou
To swear against you? such things have been done.
Here let us rest, if this rebellious earth
Her advocate to the loud'st. We do not know
You Capulet; shall go along with me:
Will't please your honour taste of these conserves?
Did need an oath; when every drop of blood
England we love; and for that England's sake
How green you are and fresh in this old world!
by't: out with 't! within ten year it will make
A word of this. What, ho! within! come forth!
Assure yourselves, will never be unkind:
In my most ill-composed affection such
And though it be allow'd in meaner parties--
[Aside to DOCTOR CAIUS]  Pray you let us not be
him up ever since he was three years old, and his
Whose motive, in this case, should stir me most
Not according to the prayer of the people, for they
They say, she hath abjured the company
SONG.
Slander to the state! Away with him to prison!
O, handle not the theme, to talk of hands,
Learning is but an adjunct to ourself
With all my heart, my liege.
The spirit of wantonness is, sure, scared out of
And that I'll write upon thy burgonet,
Or shall we on the helmets of our foes
Unless you have a codpiece to stick pins on.
Under whose shade the ramping lion slept,
How now, lady!
Rid me these villains from your companies:
Beside the charge, the shame, imprisonment,
Whereto we see in all things nature tends--
Which touching but my gentle vessel's side,
The King of Naples, whosoe'er thou art.
Do you know, sirrah, where Lieutenant Cassio lies?
His soldiers lurking in the towns about,
I will avouch in presence of the king:
To her, widow!
Stay yet another day, thou trusty Welshman:
To the sea-side, and put his cause and quarrel
As flowers with frost or grass beat down with storms:
For certain in our story, she
It is the very error of the moon;
Indeed, my lord, it is a most absolute and excellent horse.
A thousand pieces.
Sometime like apes that mow and chatter at me
A crow without feather? Master, mean you so?
I will marry you, if ever I marry woman, and I'll be
O blest, that I might not! I chose an eagle,
Even to our ocean, to our great King John.
Well, then, I am the shooter.
Strikes her
The more shame for ye: holy men I thought ye,
Exit
Vouchsafe me, for my meed, but one fair look;
To-morrow! O, that's sudden! Spare him, spare him!
I have, and most unwillingly, of late
But with these nails I'll pluck out these false eyes
Discourse is heavy, fasting; when we have supp'd,
Have we not had a taste of his obedience?
And he is yours, and his must needs be yours:
But with a grain a day, I would not buy
I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul
Our eldest, Malcolm, whom we name hereafter
See you these clothes? say you see them not and
Till by broad spreading it disperse to nought.
Whose high upreared and abutting fronts
The upper Germany, can dearly witness,
is stronger than Hercules: he will lie, sir, with
affection to congratulate the princess at her
There comes the rain, there begins confusion.
And this the hand that slew thy brother Rutland;
And venture madly on a desperate mart.
The bodies of GONERIL and REGAN are brought in
O, what a scandal is it to our crown,
imposition depending on the caskets.
A miracle! here's our own hands against our hearts.
A nest of hollow bosoms, which he fills
A power I have, but of what strength and nature
And king o'er him and all that he enjoys:
Enter LE BEAU
Your lordship ever binds him.
Is not their climate foggy, raw and dull,
Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom.
According to my shallow simple skill.
An you be mine, I'll give you to my friend;
We hear not of him, neither need we fear him;
To DULL
Why should not I then prosecute my right?
How shall I feast him? what bestow of him?
From Athens is her house remote seven leagues;
Even at his father's house, the old Andronicus.
How you awake our sleeping sword of war:
Consider then we come but in despite.
though I say it, though old man, yet poor man, my father.
Music and poesy use to quicken you;
I know no further:
He hath no friends but who are friends for fear.
Ye speak like honest men; pray God, ye prove so!
Lately attendant on the Duke of Norfolk.
And I, to keep all this.
With manacles thorough our streets, or else
think well to carry this as you may, the doubleness
Pernicious blood-sucker of sleeping men!
Most welcome, sir!
If at Philippi we do face him there,
On me, that halt and am unshapen thus?
Right.
Come, come;
What would my lord, but that he may not have,
He was my master; and I wore my life
with the story of the Prodigal, fresh and new. Go
wit stirring and leave the faction of fools.
I know none. Can you tell me of any?
That I am that same wall; the truth is so:
comedy: my cue is villanous melancholy, with a
I know the boy will well usurp the grace,
Benedick bear it, pluck off the bull's horns and set
music and thy English broken; therefore, queen of
O, none of both but are of high desert:
Ay, uncle, we will keep it, if we can;
What does he say of Brutus?
mother: every Jack-slave hath his bellyful of
For he is set so only to himself
Guiderius had
To lay my crown at 's feet, and there to kneel:
True, and I for a plantain: thus came your
As loath to lose him, not your father's death;
Were it better, I should rush in thus.
them. If there be not a conscience to be used in
Just opposite to what thou justly seem'st,
intellectual armour, they could never wear such heavy
They say the French count has done most honourable service.
I am the shadow of poor Buckingham,
Where and what time your majesty shall please.
sea-side where my wine is hid. How now, moon-calf!
What did you enact?
Nearest the merchant's heart. Be merciful:
They call him Troilus, and on him erect
Hath given me this: now gather, and surmise.
As 'twere my daughter's eyes: and, to be plain.
Now stay your strife: what shall be is dispatch'd.
Back to our brother England.
Your skill shall, like a star i' the darkest night,
into amazement and admiration.
Re-enter Widow, with HELENA
And heartily, for our deliverance;
then; or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with
Make that demand of the prover. It suffices me thou
Like tears that did their own disgrace bewail.
Harbour more craft and more corrupter ends
And he will bless that cross with other beating:
That's bitter to sweet end.
And spoke such scurvy and provoking terms
What, what? Nay, then I must have an ounce or two
DON
Thou darest not this and that to prove more fortunes
And pay them when you part.
O my brother,
Howe'er you come to know it, answer me:
Should once set footing in your generous bosoms?
For if such actions may have passage free,
As I intend to thrive in this new world,
I know the reason, lady, why you ask.
I will play three myself.
March'd toward Saint Alban's to intercept the queen,
Then so much have I heard:
shapes that man goes up and down in from fourscore
What, are you up here, ho? speak.
Whose breath, indeed, these hands have newly stopp'd:
But since you have made the days and nights as one,
So please you, save the thanks this prince expects:
Now I perceive they have conjoin'd all three
To such a person and in such a place,
Thyself shalt see the act:
Cry 'O sweet creature!' and then kiss me hard,
And keep our faiths firm and inviolable.
So would I ha' done, by yonder sun,
I had a thing to say, but let it go:
In any breast of strong authority,
Thou noble thing! more dances my rapt heart
Exit
O monstrous!
Ay, do, do; thou sodden-witted lord! thou hast no
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so: three of the
What's your pleasure, sir?
With favour never clasp'd; but bred a dog.
But have been waked by his timorous dreams.
Whom whilst I labour'd of a love to see,
Your aprons mountant: you are not oathable,
[Aside]  I hear, yet say not much, but think the more.
I am the greatest, able to do least,
[Within]  My lord, my lord,--
Upon the present state, whose numbers threaten;
As seemeth by his plight, of the revolt
My lord, your nobles, jealous of your absence,
SCENE II. Rousillon. Before the COUNT's palace.
Which fondly you would here impose on me;
Athens able to discharge Pyramus but he.
Marry, sir, be better employed, and be naught awhile.
She is as forward of her breeding as
Or stand so mammering on. What! Michael Cassio,
Whose bloody deeds shall make all Europe quake.
It was, villain, ere thy hand did set it down.
Dined at home! Thou villain, what sayest thou?
greedy intention, that the appetite of her eye did
Messina, and one that knows the law, go to; and a
A more sounder instance, come.
more mature dignities and royal necessities made
Not petty things admitted. Where's Seleucus?
Ay, marry, are they, sir.
drown or hang themselves, more than their even
Tom Snout, the tinker.
Take to you no hard thoughts:
The pretty follies that themselves commit;
of boots that have been candle-cases, one buckled,
[Rising]  O, she was foul!
That art not what thou'rt sure of! Get thee hence:
Then let me see thy cloak:
What complexion is she of?
No more, thou thunder-master, show
Re-enter, from the barge, Lord, with MARINA, and a young Lady
Dog!
I know him to be valiant.
And with loud 'larums welcome them to Rome.
Where Spain?
Even like a stony image, cold and numb.
Though that the queen on special cause is here,
Call hither Clifford! bid him come amain,
Bring them before me.
ACT V
Is nothing kin to foul redemption.
You were the duke's surveyor, and lost your office
In their own fashion, like a merriment.
The effect and it! Come to my woman's breasts,
Shalt stir up in Suffolk, Norfolk, and in Kent,
The worst that man can breathe, and make his wrongs
Through whom a thousand sighs are breathed for thee!
warren: I told him, and I think I told him true,
Who's there?
Cassius, be content.
Do you hear, my lord? do you hear?
Can speak like us: then wisely, good sir, weigh
We have lingered about a match between Anne Page and
seven stars are no more than seven is a pretty reason.
Heavy matters! heavy matters! but look thee here,
cat,--but not a musk-cat,--that has fallen into the
So is Alcides beaten by his page;
And bid him come to take his last farewell.
I do not care: I'll give thrice so much land
such-a-one's horse, when he meant to beg it; might it not?
That good effects may spring from words of love.
aspect to the hot breath of Spain; who sent whole
I will return again into the house and desire some
England, impatient of your just demands,
remember thy courtesy; I beseech thee, apparel thy
Come, stretch thy chest and let thy eyes spout blood;
Or do I dream? or have I dream'd till now?
I pour the helpless balm of my poor eyes.
Tell me, Andronicus, doth this motion please thee?
He wooes both high and low, both rich and poor,
And seem'd to ask him sops as he was drinking.
The substance of my praise doth wrong this shadow
Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, and Attendants
pleasure: if his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now
I do entreat that we may sup together:
It is the part of men to fear and tremble,
It burneth in the Capel's monument.
But let us hence, my sovereign, to provide
as promising her marriage, and things which would
Re-enter BENEDICK
And could it not enforce them to relent,
Sir, you seem a sober ancient gentleman by your
Methought she purged the air of pestilence!
What say ye, countrymen? will ye relent,
By my troth and maidenhead,
His lordship knows me well, and loves me well.
Which I have given to you?
Of my obscured course; and shall find time
That Photinus an eunuch and your maids
A worthy fellow, and hath ta'en much pain
As yet I do not: but, as I can learn,
I thank you, madam. Give welcome to my friend.
If I can catch him once upon the hip,
You cry against the noble senate, who,
Were still at odds, being but three.
Presented thee more hideous than thou art.
wise, if Don Worm, his conscience, find no
Only my blood speaks to you in my veins;
And are you grown so high in his esteem;
With eyes wide open; standing, speaking, moving,
I will omit no opportunity
go between you both; and in any case have a
The duke cannot deny the course of law:
Look to the drawbridge there!
I know her father, though I know not her;
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,
And 'tis no marvel he is so humorous.
Re-enter HUBERT
Ay, God Almighty help me!
We let the people know't.
His sceptre shows the force of temporal power,
Who art thou?
At heel of that, defy him.
What, ho, Pilch!
Or as tie heresies that men do leave
A deed of death done on the innocent
Youth, you have done me much ungentleness,
How like, methought, I then was to this kernel,
When it was out,--'Let me not live,' quoth he,
That I will dazzle all the eyes of France,
And cannot passionate our tenfold grief
Sir John affects thy wife.
him: he is indeed a horse; and all other jades you
From my Redeemer to redeem me hence;
Knighted in field, slain manfully in arms,
Hath Cadwal now to give it motion? Hark!
Exit
'Tis well, sir, that you hunted for yourself:
and a dram dead; then recovered again with
'Tis so, be sure of it.
I have borne this business.
Enacted wonders with his sword and lance:
A witch, by fear, not force, like Hannibal,
The reformation of our travell'd gallants,
By man's oppression; and the poor worm doth die for't.
These words, these looks, infuse new life in me.
I charge thee in the princes name, obey.
Could not abide to be with; therefore wast thou
A proper stripling and an amorous!
Under my burthen groan'd; which raised in me
I tell you, younglings, not Enceladus,
Deliver what you will; I'll say 'tis so.
discretion; and the fox carries the goose.
And, in strong proof of chastity well arm'd,
Enter the Boy
Nor any one.
That have afflictions on them, knowing 'tis
O the gods!
His very genius hath taken the infection of the device, man.
A token from her daughter, my fair love,
And I will seek for Pindarus the while.
As I have set them down. If I do send, dispatch
I stand for judgment: answer; shall I have it?
Boys, we'll go dress our hunt. Fair youth, come in:
If we obey them not, this will ensue,
And not as given. This so darks
O master, master, I have watch'd so long
That hot rash haste so indirectly shed.
If he be absent, bring his brother to me;
That is thy means to live. Do thou but think
Not going from itself; but eye to eye opposed
second cock: and drink, sir, is a great
I will be satisfied; let me see it, I say.
Time is the nurse and breeder of all good.
You are deceived: for what I mean to do
I muse my mother
words to it: and then let her consider.
Pleased you to do't at peril of your soul,
shall come over it; for, in most comely truth, thou
must be witty now. She does so blush, and fetches
no good to us: though the wisdom of nature can
Lucifer and Belzebub himself, it is necessary, look
Exit Hostess
The truth and innocence of this poor fellow,
Mine own escape unfoldeth to my hope,
So bees with smoke and doves with noisome stench
Hast thou slain Tybalt? wilt thou slay thyself?
His part o' the isle: then does he say, he lent me
But cheer thy heart, and be thou not dismay'd:
That thinks with oaths to face the matter out.
SCENE V. Gloucester's castle.
Of 'Came' and 'saw' and 'overcame: ' with shame--
SCENE VII. On board POMPEY's galley, off Misenum.
'Twas on a summer's evening, in his tent,
The large Achilles, on his press'd bed lolling,
Thy name so buried in her.
That teacheth tricks eleven and twenty long,
Nor send you out o' the way?
Thou hast faced many things.
laud them, I praise them.
[Within]  Ho! Peace be in this place!
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
No, by my life and soul!
Boatswain!
To justice, continence and nobility;
I'll follow those that even now fled hence,
Knows not which way to stand, to look, to speak,
How shall I understand you?
And slaughter'd those that were the means to help him;
Reads
Thy better must.
No, he must die. But so: I hear him coming.
Wouldst thou not be glad to have the niggardly
throat to cut. An I had been a man of any
I doubt not, uncle, of our victory.
To have it baned? What, are you answer'd yet?
Or else a hovering temporizer, that
With haughty arms this hateful name in us.
Love! his affections do not that way tend;
Has broken a staff or so; so let it pass.
And throw their power i' the dust.
Keep some state in thy exit, and vanish.
Welcome, ladies, Welcome!
Wears this war's garland: in token of the which,
And she shall file our engines with advice,
A great while ago the world begun,
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Exit
Hold, ho! Lieutenant,--sir--Montano,--gentlemen,--
O, a good wish upon you! you will try in time, in
Till o'er their brows death-counterfeiting sleep
Let me but meet you, ladies, one hour hence,
Can scarce entreat you to be odd with him.
Beg pardon of the prince, and call thee back
I do believe it, and I ask your pardon.
My holy lord of Milan, from the king
Upon the dunghill. Regan, I bleed apace:
'Twere pity two such friends should be long foes.
A pretty peat! it is best
Should they not,
So, there goes our protector in a rage.
It hath happened all as I would have had it, save
Unapt to toil and trouble in the world,
dost thou mean? Is it a world to hide virtues in?
That if one break, the other will hold; or, if both
of will or testament which argues a great sickness
If 'twere not she, I cannot tell who told me.
O Warwick, Warwick! I foresee with grief
Or should have spoke ere this. Look down, you god,
God and your majesty
Nor build their evils on the graves of great men;
Destroy'd in such a shape.
Were there surprised and taken prisoners.
skill, by so much is a horn more precious than to
That wished him on the barren mountains starve.
Enter OSWALD
Like syllable of dolour.
Pushes him away
on, then read the names of the actors, and so grow
like three German devils, three Doctor Faustuses.
But from deceit bred by necessity;
Thy husband he is dead: and for his death
What mean you, madam? I have made no fault.
If she be curst, it is for policy,
O, tell me when my lips do touch his cheeks,
Strange lingering poisons: I do know her spirit,
Why stay we now? These soldiers shall be levied,
To grubs and eyeless skulls? as I discern,
Is't come to this?
scarlet; and when you breathe in your watering, they
Be what thou wilt, thou art my prisoner.
And take him from our presence.
Heigh-ho!
Why, stay, and hear me speak.
I beseech you, do.
I did not think to be so sad to-night
A whoreson dog, that shall pelter thus with us!
Of that unsatiate Edward, noble York
Given ear to our complaint, of his great grace
Yea, but 'tis like that they will know us by our
Descend, for you must be my torchbearer.
Then be't so, my good lord.
desires to speak with you both.
What fear is this which startles in our ears?
I know not what; but format in apparel,
Thou hast the most unsavoury similes and art indeed
siege is given, is altogether directed by an
The satisfaction of her knowledge only
Hero thinks surely she will die; for she says she
Found in his pocket too; and this, it seems,
Do through the clouds behold this present hour,
Let the birds fly, and, like the famous ape,
Why this should be. I therefore vouch again
Our holy purpose to Jerusalem.
Why, God will send more, if the man will be
In being so blest! There may be in the cup
endeavour thyself to sleep, and leave thy vain
may I be so bold to know the cause of your coming?
is good for your green wound and your ploody coxcomb.
Was ever match clapp'd up so suddenly?
Enter AUFIDIUS with the second Servingman
married under a bush like a beggar? Get you to
So am I purposed.
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide;
A noble spirit!
I prithee, tell me what thou thinkest of me.
And well he might so do,
I see virtue in his looks. If then the tree may be
They fight and YOUNG SIWARD is slain
As I weigh grief, which I would spare: for honour,
It is to you, good people, that I speak,
Who gave his blood to lime the stones together,
Trib, trib, fairies; come; and remember your parts:
My lord?
True swains in love shall in the world to come
Or I shall break that merry sconce of yours
Thou whoreson zed! thou unnecessary letter! My
Here in the streets, desperate of shame and state,
Ay, his breast:
But shall be render'd to your public laws
For ever, and for ever, farewell, Cassius!
That, neither in birth or for authority,
Like to a duchess, and Duke Humphrey's lady;
And so he did; but yet I like it not,
Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile,
Than Bargulus the strong Illyrian pirate.
Than our earth's wonder, more than earth divine.
Exit PISANIO
Put this in any liquid thing you will,
rogues; give me my horse, and be hanged!
And all the rest o' the fleet.
'Tis not possible.
Is Caesar's homager: else so thy cheek pays shame
And let it be confiscate all, so soon
Than to repute himself a son of Rome
Well, Shylock, shall we be beholding to you?
age, my very prop.
That chambers will be safe.
Large-handed robbers your grave masters are,
I'll do't before I speak,--that you make known
I will discuss the humour of this love to Page.
Know'st me not by my clothes?
I have writ my letters, casketed my treasure,
Then go thou forth;
He used us scornfully: he should have show'd us
Did you by indirect and forced courses
O fie, fie, fie!
A grain, a dust, a gnat, a wandering hair,
and as I told you, my young lady bade me inquire you
And yet, I think, jet did he never see.
Endure the winter's cold as well as he:
Or else we lose ourselves to keep our oaths.
Exit Gentleman
his weakness, and admire our sufferance. Bid him
will teach you how to humour your cousin, that she
smile with an austere regard of control,--
man so rayed? was ever man so weary? I am sent
Is it yourself?
They draw on both sides
Fight till the last gasp; I will be your guard.
And with your queen. I am his cupbearer:
this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth.
You are--a senator.
And, when the tale is told, bid her be judge
By their increase, now knows not which is which:
Farewell; adieu.
youth, grieve, be effeminate, changeable, longing
Now it is the time of night
The imperial seat, to virtue consecrate,
There is no cause: when you shall know your mistress
And at our more consider'd time well read,
Of old I know them; rather with their teeth
Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters:
Happiness courts thee in her best array;
Not wagging his sweet head; and yet as rough,
Scruple, and prick, on certain speeches utter'd
By your patience, Aunchient Pistol. Fortune is
To hold your hand more close: I did endure
And bawds and whores do churches build;
And now at last, laden with horror's spoils,
You are my father, for methinks in you
punishment. And also, the watch heard them talk of
To KENT
Est-il impossible d'echapper la force de ton bras?
He is dead and gone;
To both these sisters have I sworn my love;
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do,
His forward voice now is to speak well of his
In state of health thou say'st; and thou say'st free.
Have, as I do remember, done me wrong:
increasing in love,
wilt quarrel with a man for cracking nuts, having no
Upon a valiant race thy harsh
things: I am not of your element: you shall know
Pray, sir, your pardon.
I do beseech your royal majesty,
The foul fiend haunts poor Tom in the voice of a
What is 't you say? the life?
The son, the husband and the father tearing
I turn my glass and give my scene such growing
wherefore: so that, if they love they know not why,
Peace, and be still!
his mouth, and promise, like Brabbler the hound:
show your sheep-biting face, and be hanged an hour!
Whiles I take order for mine own affairs.
Her brother, having both their country quitted
The nonpareil of this. O, vengeance, vengeance!
Hie to the Goths, and raise an army there:
with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
Snakes, in my heart-blood warm'd, that sting my heart!
But are not some whole that we must make sick?
gives rare new liveries: if I serve not him, I
Or else depart; here all eyes gaze on us.
Myself am one made privy to the plot.
Thou wall, O wall, O sweet and lovely wall,
Go in with me: my duty cannot suffer
Full well I wot the ground of all this grudge:
And hither make, as great ambassadors
And, like true subjects, sons of your progenitors,
To carry that which I would have refused,
may speak of thee as the traveller doth of Venice;
You have good leave to leave us: when we need
What does this knave here? Get you gone, sirrah:
I would it were not notorious. Was this gentlewoman
Here comes the rogue.
Ah, now no more will I control thy griefs:
Away! I will not have to do with you.
He goes hence frowning: but it honours us
Should be the father to so blest a son,
Let me alone.
Though calved i' the porch o' the Capitol--
For I am proverb'd with a grandsire phrase;
Good morrow to you both. What counterfeit did I give you?
Than I can wish to adders, spiders, toads,
Therefore we marvel much our cousin France
Indifferent.
Monsieur Parolles, you were born under a charitable star.
As seld I have the chance--I would desire
Who shall stay you?
I'll tarry no longer with you: farewell, good
Calls my lord?
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
But I will rise there with so full a glory
could not discover, these shallow fools have brought
were you at Ilium?
Collected for this expedition.
the breach of hers. Let thine own hands take away
hell for swearing to gentlemen my friends, you were
Be you remember'd, Marcus, she's gone, she's fled.
From my lord to my lady.
Those are the raised father and his friends:
saved me my pains, to have taken it away yourself.
Of that wide gap, since it is in my power
The deadly-handed Clifford slew my steed,
Shall Henry's conquest, Bedford's vigilance,
This fellow is wise enough to play the fool;
Exit
Shone down the English; and, to-morrow, they
If my suspect be false, forgive me, God,
And heal the inveterate canker of one wound
Or lay on that shall make your shoulders crack.
As in a looking-glass, and then to sigh, as 'twere
Last night you did desire it: speak not to us.
Nothing acquainted with these businesses;
For God's sake, take away this captive scold.
beseech your worship to correct yourself, for the
Startles and frights consideration,
you, when I have held familiarity with fresher
A punishment or trial? Yes; no wonder,
'Tis pity she's not honest, honourable:'
major; so that it follows, I am rough and
that to him now is as luscious as locusts, shall be
Began to scold and raise up such a storm
Do pelt so fast at one another's pate
So went he suited to his watery tomb:
Ha!
wrong side may be turned outward!
Exit
Five hundred were but yesterday dubb'd knights:
That clogs me with this answer.'
Your friends are well and have them much commended.
Grow great by your example and put on
Faster than spring-time showers comes thought
He weeds the corn and still lets grow the weeding.
Exit
As I could pick my lance.
Whilst I propose the selfsame words to thee,
are but boards, sailors but men: there be land-rats
Take thou the fee, and tell him what I say;
A noise within
Before the people all,
Must end that work the ides of March begun;
thoughts, and hot deeds? Why, they are vipers:
He that has but effected his good will
For that 'Forgive our Romans.' O, a kiss
Consisting equally of horse and foot;
Your own good thoughts excuse me, and farewell:
They're welcome all; let 'em have kind admittance:
My lord, entreat him by no means to stay.
With purple fountains issuing from your veins,
[Aside to POMPEY]  If for the sake of merit thou
Not knowing how to find the open air,
And who should say, 'I would thou wert the man'
Thou and I are too wise to woo peaceably.
honourable without marriage? I think you would have
gown; having come from a day-bed, where I have left
A shrewd one to's.
Trebles thee o'er.
Death to thyself but to thy lewd-tongued wife,
Than was that young and princely gentleman.
Come, bitter conduct, come, unsavoury guide!
Dissemble not your hatred, swear your love.
Due to this heinous capital offence,
If I should tell thee o'er this thy day's work,
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
Fiery? the fiery duke? Tell the hot duke that--
wise men do foolishly.
A' will betray us all unto ourselves:
Marry, will I, sir; and, for that I promised you,
When he shall split thy very heart with sorrow,
looked to, without any tricks.
Re-enter PISANIO, with the clothes
May say 'This mercy we have show'd;' the Romans,
But death hath snatch'd my husband from mine arms,
if we were villains by necessity; fools by
And paint your face and use you like a fool.
Shall set thee on triumphant chariots and
Exeunt all but JULIET and Nurse
Vouchsafed to think he had partners: you shall find there
She and the duke her husband!
And teach me how to curse mine enemies!
You know that I held Epicurus strong
Here comes the lady; let her witness it.
Exit
ARIEL'S song.
I have done.
mains d'un chevalier, je pense, le plus brave,
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
But far unfit to be a sovereign.
Have you, I say, an answer of such fitness for all
I was preserved to serve this noble count.
Exeunt
A gory emulation 'twixt us twain:
Rome more. Had you rather Caesar were living and
But smacks of something greater than herself,
It is a nipping and an eager air.
And are not you my husband?
Cold-hearted toward me?
his hands.
He does: he did appoint so.
O'er-run and trampled on: then what they do in present,
The case stands with her; do't as from thyself.
Apparent to my heart.
Alas, you three, on me, threefold distress'd,
For eighteen months concluded by consent.
Both for myself and them, but, chief of all,
Ay, that you shall.
Traitor, if Rome have law or we have power,
'Tis done by me, and ends in 'Margaret.'
That sings heaven's praise with such an earthly tongue.
I prithee, do not hold me to mine oath;
Nay, keep your way, little gallant; you were wont to
Re-enter Attendant, with two Murderers
Doth burn the heart to cinders where it is.
Enter MARK ANTONY with EUPHRONIUS, the Ambassador
By my faith,
I'll send her to you presently;
I drink, I eat, array myself, and live.
Let me not understand you, then; speak it in Welsh.
And, if you love me, as I think you do,
Are now so sure that nothing can dissolve us.
Do it not with poison, strangle her in her bed, even
My niece is horribly in love with a thing you have,
I will ask him for my place again; he shall tell me
That would have forced your honour and your love;
Good God, these nobles should such stomachs bear!
Of this make no conclusion, lest you say
Then will he strip his sleeve and show his scars.
hath seen such scarecrows. I'll not march through
Most fortunately: he hath achieved a maid
Prince Troilus: I will make a complimental assault
safe-conduct for his person of the magnanimous
napkins; that, Master Brook, there was the rankest
Thy life hath that dishonour'd.
good night, good night.
That she loves him, 'tis apt and of great credit:
else be incontinent before marriage: they are in
Warwick, this is some post to us or thee.
Very well.
A testament of noble-ending love.
His is the right, and therefore pardon me.
Reads
Till he hath found a time to pay us home:
I would relieve her. Had you that craft, to reave
But I'll acquaint our duteous citizens
As to upbraid you with those kindnesses
Exit
Is not my friend: this, to confirm my welcome;
Dost overshine the gallant'st dames of Rome,
This mould of Marcius, they to dust should grind it
Go, get you to your house; be gone, away!
As you enjoin'd me, I have writ your letter
concerning your marriage.
Methinks it sounds much sweeter than by day.
Tut, I am in their bosoms, and I know
Your grace may enter now.
Of what you shall deliver. Yet, give me leave:
Or sleep I now and think I hear all this?
Which I first gave her; I saw it in his hand:
In coffins from the field;
My comfort is that heaven will take our souls
For Anjou and fair Touraine, Maine, Poictiers,
A man of great authority in France,
That's not the tune.
I do not well understand that. Will you play upon
Thus Suffolk hath prevail'd; and thus he goes,
Away, you rogue! dost thou not hear them call?
What do you think?
And soberly did mount an arm-gaunt steed,
I warrant him, Petruchio is Kated.
My sons' sweet blood will make it shame and blush.
Let him that was the cause of this have power
And speak I will; I am no child, no babe:
the said Henry shall espouse the Lady Margaret,
You do the nobler.
a sorrow than have it.
And soul with soul from France to heaven fly.
Holy King Henry, and thy fair son Edward,
that is my true humour.
cunning match have you made with this jest of the
Thou art not by mine eye, Lysander, found;
Whose friend in justice thou hast ever been,
Enter two Gentlemen, meeting
Alarum. Enter an English Soldier, crying 'A  Talbot! a Talbot!' They fly, leaving their clothes behind
Hath leap'd into my seat; the thought whereof
stooping for, there it lies in your eye; if not, be
invincible spirit: but it shall be convenient,
Unto Diana there a votaress.
'And more wealth than faults.'
And toil'd with works of war, retired himself
to-morrow to hunt with him, and has sent your honour
prognostication, I cannot scratch mine ear. Prithee,
But whether 'twas the coldness of the king,
Partly that I have need of such a youth
What art thou? and how comest thou hither,
Padua affords this kindness, son Petruchio.
an addle egg.
Did my father strike my gentleman for chiding of his fool?
That Bona shall be wife to the English king.
When daffodils begin to peer,
Thou dost thy office fairly. Turn thee back.
I humbly beseech you, proceed to the affairs of state.
I'll wait upon them: I am ready.
To thick-eyed musing and cursed melancholy?
Exit
is there no sequel at the heels of this mother's
Would win some words of him.
O base Hungarian wight! wilt thou the spigot wield?
reflection should hurt her.
It may well be;
I warrant thee, nobody hears; mine own people, mine
That rises like the issue of a king,
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
What dost thou think?
'Tis from your sister.
So much his friend, ay, his unfeigned friend,
Than cherishing the exhibiters against us;
I have been dear to him, lad, some two thousand
And soothest up greatness. What a fool art thou,
Good lady,
sewed up again; and that I'll prove upon thee,
The direful spectacle of the wreck, which touch'd
Without me, as within me; not imagined, felt.
As doth a battle, when they charge on heaps
Caesar did write for him to come to Rome.
A short alarum; then enter the town with soldiers
Beware my follower. Peace, Smulkin; peace, thou fiend!
How weary, stale, flat and unprofitable,
It will help me nothing
What night-rule now about this haunted grove?
Titled goddess;
The third possessor; ay, he was the third--
The wounded chance of Antony, though my reason
Good morrow, gentle mistress: where away?
Item, Bread,        ob.
Do you bandy looks with me, you rascal?
So out of circumstance and sudden, tells us
While some men leave to do!
Alas, Iago, my lord hath so bewhored her.
I do refer me to the oracle:
A morsel for a monarch: and great Pompey
Of my lord's tricks and yours when you were boys:
And in such eyes as ours appear not faults;
Well, sir, here is for your pains. What said she?
Exit
I pardon him.
Stubborn to justice, apt to accuse it, and
I pray you, school yourself: but for your husband,
When I did love you ill? This has no holding,
Tearing the Thracian singer in their rage.'
Would then be nothing: truths would be tales,
For this poor furniture and mean array.
Ten thousand worse than ever yet I did
have received my proportion, like the prodigious
tragedians; to belie him, I will not, and more of
Your husband's coming hither, woman, with all the
Should I have wish'd a thing, it had been he.
Why, our authority is his consent,
And know their spring, their head, their
And being enfranchised, bid him come to me.
Is all too wanton and too full of gawds
Thou shouldst come like a Fury crown'd with snakes,
And underneath that consecrated roof,
My legs do better understand me, sir, than I
And he that sleeps here swims.
And sing it to her bones, sing it to-night:
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
And formally, according to our law,
So, I am free; yet would not so have been,
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay!
How to deny them, who to advance and who
You holp us, sir,
All hail, the richest beauties on the earth!--
grammar school; and whereas, before, our forefathers
ACT III
I would have had thee there, and here again,
First, all you peers of Greece, go to my tent;
I shall beat you to your tent, and prove a shrewd
Don John had made, away went Claudio enraged; swore
When in the world I lived, I was the world's
Myself I'll dedicate. Let me make men know
Putting up the letter
'Twixt this and supper: go not my horse the better,
Have felt the worst of death's destroying wound
out; what she bade me say, I will keep to myself:
I spoke with some of the sailors that escaped the wreck.
Till in her ashes she lie buried.
My name is Proculeius.
parish up again. But if the good King Simonides
Life and death! I am ashamed
SCENE I. KING HENRY IV's camp near Shrewsbury.
Have mind upon your health, tempt me no further.
My father's dead.
overcame:' for your brother and my sister no sooner
them ill-favouredly.
bed; which bed, because it shall not speak of your
have not ballads made on you all and sung to filthy
He hath a lady, wiser, fairer, truer,
And beg thy pardon ere he do accuse thee.
Where is the master, boatswain?
I cannot choose but tell him, that I care not,
That has this morning left thee, would have still
Roderigo kill'd!
Swearing allegiance and the love of soul
such a foolish song. God be wi' you; and God mend
Stand you awhile apart;
Which is our honour, bitter torture shall
Scotland hath foisons to fill up your will.
That in this desert inaccessible,
Our great competitor: from Alexandria
A dateless bargain to engrossing death!
And I will overhear their conference.
When I have found it. The count he wooes your daughter,
We'll make you some sport with the fox ere we case
But we that know what 'tis to fast and pray
Both of you
Unhousel'd, disappointed, unanel'd,
damnation: but this is not so: the king is not
years, shall after revive, be jointed to the old
And Dick the shepherd blows his nail
the duller parts:
Thou art the best o' the cut-throats: yet he's good
Sir, I have not you by the hand.
Beware you lose it not: for us, if you please
Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye:
And at thy mercy shalt they stoop and kneel,
O,--sixpence, that I had o' Wednesday last
I will most willingly attend your ladyship.
'Twere deadly sickness or else present death.
me as you will.
Both, my good host, to go along with me:
With shunless destiny; aidless came off,
What sayest thou to a hare, or the melancholy of
Welcome; fall to: I will not trouble you
Rich only in large hurts. All those for this?
father had never a house but the cage.
he's much out of health, and keeps his chamber.
That as a waist doth girdle you about,
Lysander and myself will fly this place.
and spin it off.
Of all that I do know: nor know I aught
Without more wider and more overt test
His worth is warrant for his welcome hither,
In pity of his misery, to dispatch
Exeunt
Mehercle, if their sons be ingenuous, they shall
Now while I speak this, holds his wife by the arm,
Which, to the spire and top of praises vouch'd,
And I could laugh, I am light and heavy. Welcome.
tell thee how the prince, Claudio and my master,
Arraign her first; 'tis Goneril. I here take my
That I enjoy, being the queen thereof.
These rural latches to his entrance open,
knock; never at quiet! What are you? But
Seize upon Fife; give to the edge o' the sword
Refused most princely gifts, am bound to beg
my sword like a great pin, ere thou and I part.
His corrigible neck, his face subdued
The agent of thy foul inconstancy,
When it is paid according to the tenor.
Only look up clear;
so they shall be both bestowed. I have suffered more
This grisly beast, which Lion hight by name,
Accessible is none but Milford way.
He speak against me on the adverse side,
Wilt thou change fathers? I will give thee mine.
Thy grave is digg'd already in the earth.
Being all this time abandon'd from your bed.
Ay, madam, with his eyes in flood with laughter:
Hath pass'd in safety through the narrow seas,
Patroclus make demands to me, you shall see the
I have disclaim'd sir Robert and my land;
Marry, and will, my lord, with all my heart.
Stanley, I prithee, go, and take me hence;
leave his honour and her together. Go thy ways.
henceforth let a Welsh correction teach you a good
which there were no expectation of our prosperity.
Or I attach you by this officer.
My Icarus, my blossom, in his pride.
Shall touch the people--which time shall not want,
And mark how he continues.
Hours dreadful and things strange; but this sore night
So should my thoughts be sever'd from my griefs,
What, I prithee, might be the cause?
You heavy people, circle me about,
I'll show you how to observe a strange event.
On your allegiance,
fifteen hundred paces of your tents.
Enter RICHMOND, OXFORD, BLUNT, HERBERT, and others, with drum and colours
Still growing in a majesty and pomp, the which
When Caesar's wife shall meet with better dreams.'
As broad and general as the casing air:
To seek him here that means not to be found.
Subscribed by the consuls and patricians,
Saw? who?
Enter certain Nymphs
Mend him who can: the ladies call him sweet;
A strain of rareness: and I grieve myself
And did deserve his change: for what I have conquer'd,
Flourish. Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK, with other Lords, and Attendants
Welcome shall they be;
Who they should be that have thus many led you?
Catesby!
Exeunt, fighting
Well, on to the market-place.
Nay, indeed, if you had your eyes, you might fail of
thee. Thy conceit is nearer death than thy powers.
In earnest of further benefit,
Your charms and every thing beside.
What, will the aspiring blood of Lancaster
More needs she the divine than the physician.
As worldlings do, giving thy sum of more
When nature, being oppress'd, commands the mind
Shall on them settle. You know your places well;
Come here to-day.
My dreams presage some joyful news at hand:
Pish for thee, Iceland dog! thou prick-ear'd cur of Iceland!
My Regan counsels well; come out o' the storm.
more detraction at your heels than fortunes before
They play
Exit
Northumberland, I hold thee reverently.
To that I'll urge him: therefore thou shalt vow
presently, and swoon for what's to come upon thee.
A plague-sore, an embossed carbuncle,
His fortunes all lie speechless and his name
send for certain of my creditors: and yet, to say
I fell with curses.
Truly, sir, I am a poor fellow that would live.
You hear, Count Claudio: I can be secret as a dumb
Thou shalt not back till I have borne this corse
Stand by, or I shall gall you, Faulconbridge.
You shall have leave.
To the strict deputy; bid herself assay him:
Your soldiers use him as the grace 'fore meat,
Come, there's no more tribute to be paid: our
For 'twere no charity; yet, to wash your blood
Whose ugly and unnatural aspect
Is to the court, and there ye shall be my guests:
For I must talk of murders, rapes and massacres,
You're a dog.
'Tis very true: you were in presence then;
Which is the mightier: in his lawless fit,
Where I have come, great clerks have purposed
The chief aim of his honour; and, to strengthen
He gives me so much of mine own, as I
Here stand a pair of honourable men;
Be made as soft as yours and let their palates
No longer shall you gaze on't, lest your fancy
Lucius our emperor; for well I know
traitors too; in her they are the better for their
Were never orphans had so dear a loss!
there's one up.
When did she send thee?
Both day and night did we keep company.
well endeavours to trust to himself and to live
To buy apparel 'gainst the wedding-day.
That have a sharper known; well corresponding
Why, just, my lord, and that is Angelo,
Thou hadst a Richard, till a Richard killed him;
You, son John, and my cousin Westmoreland
And you, Sir Walter Herbert, stay with me.
You are looked for and called for, asked for and
Then there's my glove;
The unkindest beast more kinder than mankind.
Forbidden bandying in Verona streets:
[Reads]  'that shallow vassal,'--
Why, one that rode to's execution, man,
Makes fear'd and talk'd of more than seen--your son
Yonder comes a poet and a painter: the plague of
Here I disclaim all my paternal care,
And yet are on't? Live you? or are you aught
Patience, dear niece. Good Titus, dry thine eyes.
With holy breath.
Enter MARK ANTONY
Thump! then see thou thump thy master well.
Than in a polite distance.
Stay, stay thy hands! thou art an Amazon
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be
Nothing.
I will bestow him, and will answer well
And all indign and base adversities
Scare Troy out of itself. But, march away:
Come hither, spirit:
Exeunt GREMIO and HORTENSIO
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire.'
That would be ten days' wonder at the least.
SCENE V. London. The palace.
When you do take the means whereby I live.
The raven himself is hoarse
Thy soldier, servant; making peace or war
When lion rough in wildest rage doth roar.
[Sings]
Not dallying with a brace of courtezans,
Our expectation hath this day an end:
From off these fields, where, wretches, their poor bodies
I would thou hadst been son to some man else:
As sure as in this late-betrayed town
O, I have fed upon this woe already,
Bear mine to him, and so depart in peace:
The strangeness of his alter'd countenance?
Long live Edward the Fourth!
Did lack a parallel; yet for all that
Now, on the Sunday following, shall Bianca
I shall forestall thee, Lord Ulysses, thou!
him to prison! Where is the provost? Away with him
And yet, methinks, I could be well content
But with that surname; a good memory,
To wield old partisans, in hands as old,
Durst make too bold a herald of my tongue
That the whole life of Athens were in this!
Let him on.
Mercy but murders, pardoning those that kill.
And he to England shall along with you:
Still we went coupled and inseparable.
Our gentry than our parents' noble names,
'Tis not due yet; I would be loath to pay him before
Who's there? my good lord cardinal? O my Wolsey,
Under my poor instructions yet must suffer
And say poor Margaret was a prophetess!
Save men's opinions and my living blood,
To bring, uncle?
Thou teachest me, O valiant Eros, what
Commonly are; the want of which vain dew
If thy offences were upon record,
Than I stand debted to this gentleman:
Now shine it like a comet of revenge,
Your sword is bright, sir; put it up again.
Will not be rubb'd nor stopp'd: I'll entreat for thee.
What is your pleasure, madam?
Your tongue, though but bastards and syllables
Deserved this so dishonour'd rub, laid falsely
Well, well; the event.
me out contracted bachelors, such as had been asked
Pray thee, corporal, stay: the knocks are too hot;
Ay, if you dare do yourself a profit and a right.
Exit
I think he is: but a greater soldier than he you wot on.
Nature's wit.
In prison hast thou spent a pilgrimage
It should be look'd to: come.
Question your grace the late ambassadors,
That young Octavius and Mark Antony
By thy dame Partlet here. Take up the bastard;
Most like I did, for I was dead.
So criminal and in such capital kind,
Of that sweet way I was in to despair!
Nothing, my lord.
Sir, the contempts thereof are as touching me.
She says it is a fair one.
Nothing but curious pleasures, as from thence
As the last taste of sweets, is sweetest last,
Turning the widows' tears, the orphans' cries
east side of the grove?
Yonder's the head of that arch-enemy
Should have a back or second, that might hold,
So please your highness,
Ere in our own house I do shade my head,
Using those thoughts which should indeed have died
He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much
Who nothing hurt withal hiss'd him in scorn:
Are you meditating on virginity?
But one imperious in another's throne?
Even so quickly may one catch the plague?
Trip away; make no stay;
My lord?
Ever love Caesar so?
To bloody battles and to bruising arms.
place thee, I will.
Wishing it so much blood unto your life.
To an impatient child that hath new robes
When did she cross thee with a bitter word?
They sing:
To bear the tidings of calamity.
I pray you, sir, my ring, or else the chain:
behavior vain, ridiculous, and thrasonical. He is
The open ear of youth doth always listen;
Brutus and Caesar: what should be in that 'Caesar'?
I know my hour is come.
Heavily, heavily:
at the temple, and there, before the whole
only downright oaths, which I never use till urged,
Shall follow in your conduct speedily.
This widow lady? In her right we came;
The parts that fortune hath bestow'd upon her,
Much deserved on his part and equally remembered by
Alarum. Enter AENEAS
I'll know his humour, when he knows his time:
To taint that honour every good tongue blesses,
comes, and again; catched it again; or whether his
What cannot you and I perform upon
But bloody with the enemies of his kin.
I mean, Hortensio is afeard of you.
He shall not hear thee; or from Caesar's camp
See where she comes, apparell'd like the spring,
Of these our dear-beloved solemnized;
I'll send them all as willing as I live:
Beaten the maids a-row and bound the doctor
Sooth, but you must.
Why, so, brave lords! when we join in league,
What duty they do owe their lords and husbands.
Then here's a man stands, that has brought his pardon.
Upon the foot of motion.
Conjurers and sorcerers, that afraid of him
We do believe thee: and beshrew my soul
What! I must have a care of you.
Yes, sir, I have indeed.
ACT III
And here was left by the sailors. Thou, my slave,
followed the arts!
desired employment, BIRON.' Sir Nathaniel, this
In your close patience.
for their sakes, more than the villanous inconstancy
have sufferd all this. My suit then is desperate;
Give scandal to the blood o' the prince my son,
How does he, sirrah?
But, ere I go, Hastings and Montague,
SONG.
Thou bear's thy heavy riches but a journey,
O giglot fortune!--to master Caesar's sword,
That lie and cog and flout, deprave and slander,
And that's the reason I love him so little.
Exit a Servingman
Or russet-pated choughs, many in sort,
the truth, I had as lief have the foppery of freedom
Have read it for restoratives:
And you, sir, for this chain arrested me.
queen's, which accidentally, or by the way of
You spotted snakes with double tongue,
Flow this way! A brave fellow! he keeps his tides
When I a fat and bean-fed horse beguile,
I count myself in nothing else so happy
What, you egg!
Who can be other in this royal presence?
Enter WARWICK and OXFORD, with French soldiers
Look to your house, your daughter and your bags!
Hark, boys.
broke cross.
Where is your son?
He stamps with his foot and the soldiers show themselves
Retires
Come on; obey:
To have a temple built you: all the swords
Enter HAMLET and HORATIO, at a distance
Come, tears, confound;
Let me ne'er see again.
My brother slew no man; his fault was thought,
Madam?
Turn me away; and let the foul'st contempt
Think on my words.
break promise with him and make a fool of him.
Marry, bachelor,
I pray thee, mark me.
Great store of room, no doubt, left for the ladies,
Fold down the leaf where I have left: to bed:
The smallest scruple of her excellence
mopping and mowing, who since possesses chambermaids
Breathe not where princes are.
Thy yellow stockings!
Use it for my love some other way than swearing by it.
reason, we must stay the time.
Of a detesting lord.
is there not besides the Douglas? have I not all
God and the rope-maker bear me witness
Henry had none, but did usurp the place;
To show less sovereignty than they, must needs
To what may be digested in a play.
Thy father, Minos, that denied our course;
That's likewise part of my intelligence; but, I
incarnate.
Tell me, good grandam, is our father dead?
Divides more wider than the sky and earth,
I am sure it was your wife's--did I to-day
But of all, the burst
Beshrew your heart for sending me about,
Tell him Revenge is come to join with him,
The gilded newt and eyeless venom'd worm,
had inkling this fortnight what we intend to do,
of Queen Hermione's, her jewel about the neck of it,
For shame, put up.
into the ford; I have my belly full of ford.
That dost this habitation, where thou keep'st,
What you have seen him do and heard him speak,
more French: I shall never move thee in French,
him.
Music within
Since you can cog, I'll play no more with you.
I recovered it.
They have their nourishment?
His name is Barnardine.
And mine shall ring thy dire departure out.
And nothing marted with him. If your lass
Would they were blanks, rather than fill'd with me!
To an unsettled fancy cure thy brains,
If that thou be'st a Roman, take it forth;
A little more lenity to lechery would do no harm in
Melodious birds sing madrigals--
What, art thou ashamed of me?
will be a good excuse for me hereafter to leave my wife.
I'm glad 'tis there: now I would pray our monsieurs
'Tis lack of kindly warmth they are not kind;
That to my home I will no more return,
This handkercher was stain'd.
Who, earnest in the service of my God,
Will apprehend you as his enemy.
The first thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers.
not stay for him to kill him? have I not, at de place
Aside
were unhandsome; and being no other but as she is, I
Take thou this vial, being then in bed,
My hand hath been but idle; let it serve
That all particulars of duty know,
You would be, sweet madam, if your miseries were in
By whom, Camillo?
becomes him,--
That his attendant--so his case was like,
you, trippingly on the tongue: but if you mouth it,
Hear, hear how dying Salisbury doth groan!
of your office, to be no true man; and, for such
they are slanders; sixth and lastly, they have
The human mortals want their winter here;
Call in the letters patent that he hath
Until some half-hour past, when I was arm'd:
Why, I am past my gamut long ago.
Discourse, I prithee, on this turret's top.
A chain, a chain! Do you not hear it ring?
thought he would.
Here if thou stay, thou canst not see thy love;
bass-viol, in a case of leather; the man, sir,
Enter Prologue
For I am sick when I do look on thee.
The Conspirators draw, and kill CORIOLANUS: AUFIDIUS stands on his body
The strings, my lord, are false.
The more shame for you, Judas.
Is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks,
Exeunt
Then give you up to the mask'd Neptune and
O, it is monstrous, monstrous:
And cry 'O Clarence, my unhappy son!'
Pointing to Caliban
I so much thirst to see.
Enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, and DULL
heure de couper votre gorge.
estimations; the one is but frail and the other
As in these cases, where the aim reports,
The benefit of his blest beams, remaining
So I shall mend mine own, by the lack of thine.
Are you a woman?
And bear't before him: thereby shall we shadow
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
They do confound their skill in covetousness;
When I was crown'd I was but nine months old.
And bids you be advised there's nought in France
if the bear be gone from the gentleman and how much
This day she was both pantler, butler, cook,
No, nor nowhere else but in your brain.
though I say it, is an honest exceeding poor man
My sweet Patroclus, I am thwarted quite
Of this escape and whither they are bound;
That their good souls may be appeased with slaughter
But I will have them, if I once know where.
By Juno, that is queen of marriage,
Therefore the office is indifferent,
But if thou strive, poor soul, what art thou then?
Was to them as a painting: now this masque
Sir, here's a woman would speak with you.
A certain stuff, which, being ta'en, would cease
thee straight,
against him: if thou canst cuckold him, thou dost
Well, you have made a simple choice; you know not
Enter DUMAIN, with a paper
Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods!
Not you to me, but I betray'd by you:
The least rub in your fortunes, fall away
The other makes you proud. He that trusts to you,
even out of that will I cause these of Cyprus to
Cannot you tell that? every fool can tell that: it
I will not believe such a Cataian, though the priest
And she is exceeding wise.
Have not devised this slander; I'll be hang'd else.
And I must find that title in your tongue,
Shall win my love: and so I take my leave,
That you unlace your reputation thus
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
For what obscured light the heavens did grant
Mine honest friend,
Appear in person here in court. Silence!
But that the good mind of Camillo tardied
Go to, go to; you have known what you should not.
And made no deeper wounds? O flattering glass,
He had his part of it; let him pay.
But the main article I do approve
things go.
To bear our hearts in grief and our whole kingdom
Giving KENT money
Good Laertes,
But will you make it even?
The gold I gave to Dromio is laid up
More sweet than our blest fields: his royal bird
Their coin upon large interest, I myself
And darest not stand, nor look me in the face.
Play the recanter, feeling in itself
All offices of nature should again
If he be guilty, as 'tis published.
I have no power upon you; hers you are.
Let the court of France show me such another. I see
In our condition.
There hangs a vaporous drop profound;
Leash'd in like hounds, should famine, sword and fire
In bearing thus the absence of your lord.
And hear thou there how many fruitless pranks
I never gave you aught.
Mine host of the Garter!
What my estate is!
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
There is nothing done, if he return the conqueror:
Can pluck the diadem from faint Henry's head,
To draw upon an exile! O brave sir!
Thereby to have defeated you and me,
That I have done for you.
honourable father.
I cannot blame him: at my nativity
instructions may be your guide. Let this Barnardine
O! we are spoiled and--yonder he is: deny him,
But were we burdened with like weight of pain,
But who comes here?
You use me well, Master Ford, do you?
king, be his cause never so spotless, if it come to
Lies the true proof of men: the sea being smooth,
That thou commend it strangely to some place
Here, thou incestuous, murderous, damned Dane,
Leave me not behind thee: but,--
For aye thy foot-licker.
Alas! what poor ability's in me
Give me some music; music, moody food
Than it should do offence to Michael Cassio;
shall see him.
In all respects by me; nay, more, I doubt it not.
Away, my Thetis!
Real necessities, and give way the while
This ague fit of fear is over-blown;
to the world's end will have bald followers.
We were the first and dearest of your friends.
Good God! why should they mock poor fellows thus?
What does this mean, my lord?
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught--
good counsel.
hindered me half a million; laughed at my losses,
No, I'll come no more i' the basket. May I not go
Therefore, so please thee to return with us
Hark, how our steeds for present service neigh!
To knee his throne, and, squire-like; pension beg
To have the heir of the Lord Hungerford.
I know his soul is in heaven, fool.
It cannot countervail the exchange of joy
You hear all these matters denied, gentlemen; you hear it.
Compassion on the king commands me stoop;
Bastard of Orleans, thrice welcome to us.
Divide in all with us.
An turn our impress'd lances in our eyes
For by my mother I derived am
manage alone. Falstaff, Bardolph, Peto and Gadshill
How now!
Intolerable, not to be endured!
That gave the affront with them.
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
He was the author, thou the instrument.
O, fie, fie, fie!
He wishes earnestly you never may.
'The fool doth think he is wise, but the wise man
We'll show thee Io as she was a maid,
They call him Ajax.
No, not take interest, not, as you would say,
Marry, sir, he hath offended the law: and, sir, we
Beyond the mark of others: our then dictator,
And the moon changes even as your mind.
And this the bleeding business they have done:
Let me entreat you.
And wilt thou have a reason for this coil?
And threefold vengeance tend upon your steps!
Most humbly therefore bending to your state,
Three days before: but this from rumour's tongue
I should knock you here, sir?
keep his house; and I wash, wring, brew, bake,
Now breathe we, lords: good fortune bids us pause,
Casca, be sudden, for we fear prevention.
Enter CLEOPATRA
Although the last, not least; to whose young love
deceits: dat is de princess.
beggar. Then have we here young Dizy, and young
Citing my worthless praise: O, pardon me;
Comes all the praises that I now bestow,
Dance
I pray you, upon what?
she is sport for Jove.
Nothing to think on but ensuing death:
My father watches: O sir, fly this place;
Folded the writ up in form of the other,
Examine every married lineament,
The worthy gentleman did lose his life.
Well, let that pass. Dorset is fled to Richmond.
Takes from Aufidius a great part of blame.
Till then farewell, sir: she must needs go in;
Importing the surrender of those lands
kinsman, she's nothing allied to your disorders. If
Be't not in thy care; go,
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
wind were but long enough to say my prayers, I would repent.
And you, Achilles, let these threats alone,
Whose deadly web ensnareth thee about?
To eat those little darlings whom they loved.
Farewell, my Desdemona: I'll come to thee straight.
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
The lords at Pomfret, when they rode from London,
Thou art too noble to conserve a life
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
Would try him to the utmost, had ye mean;
But what was true and very full of proof.
Thou never shalt hear herald any more.
Commend me to Lord William: tell him, Catesby,
Madam, speak true. It is not so, my lord:
It is no sin at all, but charity.
Sirrah, your lord and master's married; there's news
What sneaking fellow comes yonder?
wherefore I know not--lost all my mirth, forgone all
After my death I wish no other herald,
Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
That thou expect'st not nor I look'd not for.
See how belief may suffer by foul show!
That we with smoking swords may march from hence,
But where was this?
If she confess that she was half the wooer,
And none contented: sometimes am I king;
Your brother he shall go along with me.
Sleek-headed men and such as sleep o' nights:
As much or more would we ourselves complain:
Fixing it only here; should I, damn'd then,
I fear it is: and yet, methinks, it should not,
SCENE I. Friar Laurence's cell.
The weariest and most loathed worldly life
In confutation of which rude reproach
Thou hast years upon thee; and thou art too full
Her sweet perfections with one self king!
Ours be your patience then, and yours our parts;
For if the trial of the law o'ertake ye,
Of whom you seem to have so tender care?
how wit may be made a Jack-a-Lent, when 'tis upon
'Tis not the land I care for, wert thou thence;
comes not?
And kiss him with a glorious victory.
Fare you well, my dove!
Flourish
What's yet behind, that's meet you all should know.
To whom am I beholding for these limbs?
O, all you gods! O pretty, pretty pledge!
Where will doth mutiny with wit's regard.
When thou comest thither--
Yet is it true, sir.
It must not be; there is no power in Venice
Are these the breed of wits so wonder'd at?
They swear
Thou hadst been better have been born a dog
Presenting me a schedule! I will read it.
Marry, as I take it, to Rousillon;
That ever Katharina will be woo'd;
Madam, 'tis true; and were't not madness, then,
Have cost a mass of public treasury.
On the blest lovers.
Have I not heard these islanders shout out
If not, I'll die your maid: to be your fellow
Exeunt
since Deucalion, though peradventure some of the
And pardon us the interruption
That this fell fault of my accursed sons,
What lusty trumpet thus doth summon us?
Thy place in council thou hast rudely lost.
That I did love the Moor to live with him,
What air's from home. Haply this life is best,
Well I will arm me, being thus forewarn'd:
shortly, for one would kill the other. Thou! why,
Which do command them. With him I sent the queen;
Nay, certainly, I have heard the Ptolemies'
I'll rant as well as thou.
I love thee better now than e'er I did.
But to my charge. The king hath sent to know
One of them we behold.
He comes to bad intent.
Or, wing'd with fervor of her love, she's flown
The mariners all under hatches stow'd;
Or thou or I, Somerset, will be protector,
Well, well, I see the issue of these arms:
When I spoke that, I was ill-temper'd too.
No, I warrant you, he will not hear of godliness.
he hear us not, 'regia,' presume not, 'celsa senis,'
And his brave son being twain.
In the disposing of new dignities.
Of fantasy, of dreams and ceremonies:
I'll stop mine ears against the mermaid's song.
Extemporally will stage us, and present
How now, Mephostophilus!
O'erthrows thy joys, friends, fortune and thy state:
Will shortly fill the reasonable shore
In readiness for Hymenaeus stand,
Who painfully with much expedient march
Exit
Then cheer thy spirit : for know, thou emperor,
Yet herein will I imitate the sun,
Wounds like a leaden sword.
Give me some drink; and bid the apothecary
Upon the place beneath: it is twice blest;
Prospero my lord shall know what I have done:
name of Hero: she leans me out at her mistress'
worth the nineth part of a sparrow. This lord,
I go.
Exit EDGAR
here in hideous darkness.
With burial amongst their ancestors:
Thou art sensible in nothing but blows, and so is an
To shun the danger that his soul divines.
It is a bawdy planet, that will strike
Which is as thin of substance as the air
You are deceived, my substance is not here;
Now welcome more, and ten times more beloved,
Nor I neither.
As he is but my father's brother's son,
See, how with signs and tokens she can scrowl.
Here is the regent, sir, of Mytilene
Now, good Metellus, go along by him:
That see I by our faces; we are fellows still,
From Leonati seat, and cast
And then he falls, as I do. I have ventured,
Why fled you from the court? and whither? These,
You show'd your teeth like apes, and fawn'd like hounds,
Enter DULL with a letter, and COSTARD
hostess of the tavern a most sweet wench?
Do not, in grant of all demands at large,
This was his basket.
I had a monopoly out, they would have part on't:
SCENE I. Padua. A public place.
Patroclus, let us feast him to the height.
[Aside to NORFOLK]             Not to speak of:
HECTOR falls
Not truly speaks; who speaks not truly, lies.
Or void the field; they do offend our sight:
Darest thou support a publish'd traitor? Hence;
'Peace, tawny slave, half me and half thy dam!
And when she drinks, against her lips I bob
proclamation, and he rails upon me.
Quick, quick, good hands.
Glory grows guilty of detested crimes,
Madam, you have bereft me of all words,
O notable strumpet! Cassio, may you suspect
Condition, I had gone barefoot to India.
But go at once.
I am about it; but indeed my invention
I will not keep this form upon my head,
Making practise on the times,
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, FABIAN, and MARIA
And all the clouds that lour'd upon our house
And though she be but little, she is fierce.
his wringer.
Come home with me to supper; and I'll lay
And marry sweet Bianca with consent.
effusion of our blood, the muster of his kingdom too
Nay then, the wanton lies; my face is black.
I do not know; I am sure I am none such.
When such a sacred king should hide his head.
What, and from Troilus too?
If you will see a pageant truly play'd,
And all good men of this ungovern'd isle.
I thank his grace, I know he loves me well;
Adieu.
The spouse of any noble gentleman.
I shall find time, Cassius, I shall find time.
house, unless you undertake that with me which with
To reinforcement, or we perish all.
Exeunt carriers
Pronounce it for me, sir, to all our friends;
Lucius, a bowl of wine!
four times. Now I, to comfort him, bid him a'
Till painful study shall outwear three years,
Which being so horrible, so bloody, must
Why dost thou say King Richard is deposed?
We have strict statutes and most biting laws.
Bitter to me as death: your life, good master,
Troth, my lord, I have played the part of Lady Fame.
And plighter of high hearts! O, that I were
The Prince of Cumberland; which honour must
shall have all the world drink brown and white bastard.
Hear me one word;
Lords, to the field; Saint George and victory!
None are so surely caught, when they are catch'd,
news, then, in your paper?
That we adjourn this court till further day:
understand, the greater file of the subject held the
A little proudly, and great deal misprizing
Obidicut; Hobbididence, prince of dumbness; Mahu, of
We are very sorry for't.
it is mended--my quarrel was not altogether slight.
Is your man secret? Did you ne'er hear say,
To every ticklish reader! set them down
Our fealty and Tenantius' right
A plain kerchief, Sir John: my brows become nothing
And do my spiriting gently.
soldiers, the father of his son, nor the master of
The voice again, or, like a gate of steel
He calls me boy; and chides, as he had power
Doth rise and help Hyperion to his horse,
A full-hot horse, who being allow'd his way,
the waist downward, all slops, and a Spaniard from
[Aside]	Too hot, too hot!
are matched with as few good deeds; for a' never
have words to speak in thine ear will make thee
There will I stay for thee.
A pain that only seems to seek out danger
The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet.
'Gainst nature still!
as Helen: an she were not kin to me, she would be as
This would drink deep.
Ay, that Petruchio came.
No, I defy all counsel, all redress,
morning for France. The duke hath offered him
The soil, the profit and this kind of life,
By all of us, and the fair soul herself
Which here we waken to our country's good,
Sir, you shall understand what hath befall'n,
I am; therefore come down, and welcome me.
By being so verbal: and learn now, for all,
keep my sides to myself, my shoulders for the fellow
For the four winds blow in from every coast
ANTIPHOLUS
Can nothing render but allegiant thanks,
No, Corin, being old, thou canst not guess,
Then say at once if I maintain'd the truth;
Sweet-heart, see, they bark at me.
Pale as his shirt; his knees knocking each other;
At many times I brought in my accounts,
worth, to season.
Or, if thou follow me, do not believe
And doubting lest that he had err'd or sinn'd,
Methinks I hear him now; his plausive words
Such as seafaring men provide for storms;
Go with your impositions, I am yours
And gorgeous as the sun at midsummer;
No doubt he's noble;
Show me, show me.
My remedy is then, to pluck it out.
Come, come,
prithee, call in Falstaff: I'll play Percy, and
She's with the lion deeply still in league,
the chain; but, I warrant you, the women have so
It is no matter if the tied were lost; for it is the
They love you all? Haply, when I shall wed,
As I do now: for whiles this honest fool
Thou speak'st it falsely, as I love mine honour;
And am right glad to catch this good occasion
Season your admiration for awhile
Till we have brought Duke Humphrey in disgrace.
A dream of what thou wert, a breath, a bubble,
Turning dispiteous torture out of door!
I hope my master's suit will be but cold,
And never ask'd for restitution.
I will confess to you that I love him.
Weigh'd not a hair of his. Plague of your policy!
Let's see once more this saying graved in gold
So please your highness to behold the fight.
The gods assist you!
He stays upon your will.
To prattle for himself.
Twice-sod simplicity, his coctus!
courtesy of nations allows you my better, in that
To slay his daughter with his own right hand,
It pleaseth me so well, that I will see you wed;
To come between our sentence and our power,
That you might well enjoy her.
Of every line and trick of his sweet favour:
More than you doubt the change on't, that prefer
Of those that served Mark Antony but late,
You saw
But pardon me. I am too sudden-bold:
His majesty
Verily!
But, for the handkerchief,--
Which that sweet tongue hath made,
Yet let us watch the haughty cardinal:
Within this twelvemonth, or turn thou no more
ACT I
I would you heard it groan.
Ah, kill me with thy weapon, not with words!
To whom this wreath of victory I give,
pierced, which is the one?
Gallants, I am not as I have been.
And mannerly distinguishment leave out
Peruse this writing here, and thou shalt know
Nor change my countenance for this arrest:
Was not Count John here at supper?
And shake the yoke of inauspicious stars
Weep thou for me in France, I for thee here;
I pray for no man but myself:
Shall I live on to see this bastard kneel
Silver I there it goes, Silver!
And when she speaks, is it not an alarum to love?
faint a number; and for our disgrace, his own
O, what a scene of foolery have I seen,
Though the seas threaten, they are merciful;
[To BERTRAM]  These things shall be done, sir.
the subject! and war and lechery confound all!
What counsel give you in this weighty cause?
And her pale fire she snatches from the sun:
Then do I give Volquessen, Touraine, Maine,
Well, well, well,--
have a sword and it shall bite upon my necessity.
betwixt us. Only, thus far you shall answer: if
station; here's no place for you; pray you, avoid: come.
Let be, let be.
Wherein the pregnant enemy does much.
How I would make him fawn and beg and seek
Let's see your song. How now, minion!
This sandy plot is plain; guide, if thou canst
Art thou there, Diomed? Draw thy sword, and give me
I shoot thee at the swain.
He shall have every day a several greeting,
Ay, wherefore else guard we his royal tent,
Either my eyesight fails, or thou look'st pale.
traitor, let him appear by the third sound of the
For wearing our own noses.
What's that to thee? why may not I demand
SCENE I. Elsinore. A platform before the castle.
Why, what, I pray, is Margaret more than that?
The Duke of York is newly come from Ireland,
Good morrow to my sovereign king and queen:
For hither we have broken in by force.
peradventure, to make it the more gracious, I shall
Draws out our miles, and makes them wearisome,
Ring the alarum-bell. Murder and treason!
And doves will peck in safeguard of their brood.
Which the world together joins,
That you might well have signified the same
And may you prove, sir, master of your art!
Go with me, Silvius.
to bed when she list, rise when she list, all is as
As you commanded me.
On a day--alack the day!--
Set limb to limb, and thou art far the lesser;
Exeunt
I will swear by it that you love me; and I will make
As he'ld burst heaven; threw him on my father;
If I do not usurp myself, I am.
I'll ever serve his mind with my best will;
Hath not her fellow.
The thickest and the tallest! it is so; truth is truth.
gar, it is a shallenge: I will cut his troat in dee
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him:
your poor disposer's sick.
I dare presume, sweet prince, he thought no harm.
I now repent I told the pursuivant
And I embrace this fortune patiently,
Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
With that, all laugh'd and clapp'd him on the shoulder,
My lord, you told me you would tell the rest,
Do outrage and displeasure to himself?
Exeunt Prologue, Thisbe, Lion, and Moonshine
On Thursday we ourselves will march: our meeting
turned my daughter into green; and, indeed, she is
on't. Sot, didst see Dick surgeon, sot?
Sure, he that made us with such large discourse,
No, when my father York and Edward wept,
Pat, pat; and here's a marvellous convenient place
CASSIO: Good night, honest Iago.
To help to take her from her borrow'd grave,
Shall stand sore charged for the wasteful vengeance
By being in his eye. Most gracious duke,
When time is broke and no proportion kept!
Give me my sword.
Well, and you be not turned Turk, there's no more
Scarce show a harvest of their heavy toil:
Who doth molest my contemplation?
And will again commit them to their bonds,
For all the temporal lands which men devout
My gracious lord, here in the parliament
But poverty could never draw 'em from me;
all, if there is not better directions.
Your Italy contains none so accomplished a courtier
A merrier hour was never wasted there.
'Tell him, in hope he'll prove a widower shortly,
Whereof I know you are fraught; and put away
It helps not, it prevails not: talk no more.
Could I with boot change for an idle plume,
Take not away the taper, leave it burning;
A calf, fair lady!
be born under Mars.
a merciful man; good my lord.
SCENE I. A Senator's house.
Thou spend'st such high-day wit in praising him.
It is certain, corporal, that he is married to Nell
Canst thou not minister to a mind diseased,
if they suffer our departure, death's the word.
What is the remedy?
O, I beseech you, pardon me, my lord, in that.
For me?
And, from the place where you behold us now,
Poins!
When he doth run his course. Antonius!
If he had been forgotten,
With bloody veins, expecting overthrow,
Relent, and save your souls.
Of noble blood in this declining land.
As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods.
Was the first motive that I woo'd thee, Anne:
For this down-trodden equity, we tread
Re-enter BIONDELLO, with LUCENTIO and BIANCA
Exit
Pattern in himself to know,
Exit
When I have spoke of you dispraisingly,
To send it me.
honourable virtues.
Enter FLAMINIUS, SERVILIUS, and other Servants
In this strange stare?
O, full of scorpions is my mind, dear wife!
I noted her not; but I looked on her.
What, you mean my face?
Seek not my name: a plague consume you wicked
Enter CINNA the poet
by the flesh; and he must needs go that the devil drives.
Beaumont, Grandpre, Roussi, and Fauconberg,
And witness of the malice and displeasure
No, in such a case the gods will not be good unto
Who then shall blame
am a Jew else, an Ebrew Jew.
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
I fear, the story of his anger. 'Tis so;
One three of them, by their own report, sir, hath
By this vile conquest shall attain unto.
If that be sin, I'll make it my morn prayer
And I may live to do you kindness if
Trumpet sounds. Enter a Messenger
Thus might he pass indeed: yet he revives.
Waste it for you, like taper-light.
To grow there and to bear,--'Let me not live,'--
That almost burst the deck.
And the dire death of my two sons and brothers?
as crest-fallen as a dried pear. I never prospered
Hie thee to hell for shame, and leave the world,
I went to her in white, and cried 'mum,' and she
Heavens grant that Warwick's words bewitch him not!
Enter a Beadle with whips
I wish it grubb'd up now.
Do it then, that we may account thee a whoremaster
therefore I must cast it up.
[Reads]
feel, to thy cold comfort, for being slow in thy hot office?
Accursed and unquiet wrangling days,
Who, raging with thy tears, and they with them,
I'll well remember you.
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
Fie on ambition! fie on myself, that have a sword,
If you shall prove
About my stature; for at Pentecost,
SCENE V. Capulet's orchard.
Give me assurance with some friendly vow,
I cannot truly say how I came here;
For servants must their masters' minds fulfil.
To say you're welcome were superfluous.
It is my business too. Farewell.
That none of you may live your natural age,
Ere I taste bread, thou art in nothing less
To all our subjects. Set we forward: let
I should have found it afterwards well done;
O my sweet master! O you memory
Such and so finely bolted didst thou seem:
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
Anon, sir.
Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS
And quoted joint by joint.
His dagger drew, and died. For all the rest,
The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind
what's spoken, I swear.
Please you, sir,
He thinks, being twenty times of better fortune,
For, by this ring, the doctor lay with me.
Is't possible the spells of France should juggle
Of force enough to bid his brother battle;
According to his virtue let us use him,
After he once fell in with Mistress Shore.
With faces fit for masks, or rather fairer
And that thou mayst perceive how well I like it,
That you withdraw you and abate your strength;
No, Valentine.
the knowing me: it is a wise father that knows his
For 'twas indeed his colour, but he came
Yea, and so used it that were it not here apparent
public shame as the rest of the court can possibly devise.'
parting, as the procuring of mirth: you come in
And my ending is despair,
You charge not in your spleen a noble person
Both which, master constable,--
Tell me thy mind; for I have Pisa left
Be ready, Claudio, for your death tomorrow.
From courtly friends, with camping foes to live,
Take heed, the quarrel's most ominous to us: if the
I shall have my noble?
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
Disdaining duty that to us belongs.
A craftier Tereus, cousin, hast thou met,
Ay, sir; she took them, read them in my presence;
Was the Hero that here lies:
I have a father, you a daughter, lost.
and send her home again without a husband.
almost a fray.
ANTIPHOLUS
matter: there's her cousin, an she were not
Through proof of harness to my heart, and there
Than what you look on now.
You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is--
And meet me presently at Berkeley.
That have with two pernicious daughters join'd
O spirit of love! how quick and fresh art thou,
No; nor it is not meet he should. For, though I
Their warlike fraughtage: now on Dardan plains
If you shall send them word you will not come,
The palsy, and not fear, provokes me.
Or wherefore dost abuse it, if thou hast it?
Heigh, my hearts! cheerly, cheerly, my hearts!
Let me entreat, for I command no more,
I'ld wish no better choice, and think me rarely wed.
Is the obedience to a master, one
Of mine own way; I know you wise, religious;
To an asp, which she applies to her breast
Which I will bear in triumph to the king,
O Caesar! these things are beyond all use,
Why, then, I do but dream on sovereignty;
Come, I'll conduct you to the sanctuary.
kersey boot-hose on the other, gartered with a red
I ne'er heard yet
An't had been a green hair, I should have laughed
And make thee curse the harvest of that corn.
You would not then have parted with the ring.
She should in ground unsanctified have lodged
strawberries.
Those wits, that think they have thee, do very oft
Where most it promises, and oft it hits
The more delay'd, delighted. Be content;
Do my sighs stream. Sir, will you hear my suit?
Even in the lovely garnish of a boy.
O, a cherubim
ruff and sing; ask questions and sing; pick his
Lead our first battle: worthy Macduff and we
I' the market-place, on a tribunal silver'd,
Exeunt WORCESTER and VERNON, guarded
Who now is girdled with a waist of iron
By a name
this day to look you.
My lord, my lord, the French have gathered head:
She is going
Abate throw at novum, and the whole world again
What great hope have you! no hope that way is
They converse apart
Do not name Silvia thine; if once again,
How shall we do for money for these wars?
The seven-fold shield of Ajax cannot keep
Make me not sighted like the basilisk:
Our cheeks and hollow eyes do witness it.
For whose dear sake thou didst then rend thy faith
Pleaseth your highness, ay: here they are, madam:
Live scandalized and foully spoken of.
Dromio, nor thou?
And neither heaven nor man grieve at the mercy.
turn another into the register of your own; that I
For such disguise as haply shall become
Will praise a hand, a foot, a face, an eye,
To bathe my lips upon; this hand, whose touch,
Your company at dinner.
Poor gentlewoman! my master wrongs her much.
How doth he stand affected to our purpose;
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
Follow! nay, I'll go with thee, cheek by jole.
SCENE IV. A hall in the same.
Some parcels of their power are forth already,
Where is Nathaniel, Gregory, Philip?
Which was not so before. There's no such thing:
[Reads]  Upon his many protestations to marry me
We had conceived against him: Maria writ
The hand was fair before! I have put you out:
Know of the duke if his last purpose hold,
Few words suffice; and therefore, if thou know
I have spoken better of you than you have or will to
This shouldering of each other in the court,
And with no less nobility of love
First thrash the corn, then after burn the straw:
Nay, my lords,
Ay, my good lord; a son that well deserves
Lest in this marriage he should be dishonour'd,
DON
Ourselves well sinewed to our defence.
And Edward, my poor son, at Tewksbury.
well, go to--there were no more comparison between
We shall be short in our provision:
Then should the warlike Harry, like himself,
The heads of all thy brother cardinals,
Think you a little din can daunt mine ears?
Safe-conducting the rebels from their ships!
Show him your hand.
Sink in the ground? I thought it would have mounted.
That such a slave as this should wear a sword,
having been supple and courteous to the people,
brother are hard by, with the king's forces.
As those two eyes become that heavenly face?
But by particular consent proceeded
thinks scorn,
Will he swagger himself out on's own eyes?
Magni Dominator poli,
By the Lord, I'll be a traitor then, when thou art king.
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
Exeunt VALENTINE and PROTEUS
Or show the glory of our art?
Ay, good my lord.
Let him seek out Rosalind.
And I beseech you, let not his report
Whether it like me or no, I am a courtier. Seest
For shame, come down: he made thee Duke of York.
All the whole time
And hugg'd me in his arm, and kindly kiss'd my cheek;
Now help, ye charming spells and periapts;
FRANCISCO at his post. Enter to him BERNARDO
What's a drunken man like, fool?
Make war upon themselves; blood against blood,
Be not her maid, since she is envious;
nothing so fitly as to a whale; a' plays and
duke, I say to thee again, would eat mutton on
And raze their faction and their family,
Anointed, I implore so much expense of thy royal
For if thou path, thy native semblance on,
Why, there was a crown offered him: and being
shent for speaking to you.
Must ask my child forgiveness!
How now, Mistress Ford!
O rare instinct!
Against your peace: Love doth approach disguised,
Thy lord, Thersites: then tell me, I pray thee,
Shall I, for lucre of the rest unvanquish'd,
The art itself is nature.
How churlishly I chid Lucetta hence,
Come, Friar Francis, be brief; only to the plain
The hope thereof makes Clifford mourn in steel.
That she was coming with a full intent
And when I mount, alive may I not light,
Such sense, that my sense breeds with it. Fare you well.
It could not be judged, sir.
Still through the hawthorn blows the cold wind:
I doubt not but with honour to redress;
An alligator stuff'd, and other skins
Presenting a letter
consequently sets down the manner how; as, a sad
Hector, thou sleep'st;
but 'tis a Valentine.
I thank thee, Clifford: say, what news with thee?
The terrors of the earth. You think I'll weep
A friend should bear his friend's infirmities,
To point his slow unmoving finger at!
lion, and thou for a true prince. But, by the Lord,
we shall drink down all unkindness.
not tell you on compulsion. Give you a reason on
Her dowry shall weigh equal with a queen:
Can never be so equal, that your love
Thou hadst not lived to kill a son of mine.
And place your hands below your husband's foot:
The very best at a beast, my lord, that e'er I saw.
Of this most wise rebellion, thou go'st foremost:
My dear Lord Gloucester, and my good Lord Exeter,
And by their hands this grace of kings must die,
Nay, blush not, Cleopatra; I approve
And tell them both the circumstance of all;
God's will! I pray thee, wish not one man more.
Give thee thy hire and send thy soul to hell,
Of honourable-dangerous consequence;
To CAMILLO
But by some power it is,--my love to Hermia,
To this same place, to this same monument.
Good morning to you, fair and gracious daughter.
Be here presented. Now we bear the king
[To GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS]  Though you did love
Here's his lordship now.
Now I perceive that she hath made compare
And even at hand a drum is ready braced
Good brother, come you hither;
Where, underneath the grove of sycamore
I will go on. I lay with Cassio lately;
Which of the vizards was it that you wore?
At what o'clock to-morrow
[Aside]  He need not fear the sword; for his coat is of proof.
As well as Lewis of France, or the Earl of Warwick,
See riot and dishonour stain the brow
Cries cuckold to my father, brands the harlot
and lost all my money?
And lay this Angiers even to the ground;
art. Look you, who comes here?
I have delivered it an hour since: there is
O Lord! my boy, my Arthur, my fair son!
I your lady, Sir John! alas, I should be a pitiful lady!
Ay, I would I were deaf; it makes me have a slow heart.
I'll pray a thousand prayers for thy death,
O, then my best blood turn
Sir, to your pleasure humbly I subscribe:
Is new committed to the Bishop of York,
Ay, traitor.
Re-enter PANDARUS with CRESSIDA
The lady speaks again in Welsh
To think your father, by some accident,
On them to took and practise by myself.
For it is parting from us:
Hem them away.
That these great lords and Margaret our queen
unserviceable: the troops are all scattered, and
Frosty, but kindly: let me go with you;
Ay, very well, my lord.
Why strew'st thou sugar on that bottled spider,
To spit on thee again, to spurn thee too.
Comes from my love. But I do see you're moved:
The Duke of Suffolk?
Matching thy inference. 'Tis not to make me jealous
Makes way, and run like swallows o'er the plain.
An old man, broken with the storms of state,
Till he be brought unto the empress' face,
As ignorance made drunk. But yet, I say,
I am not in a sportive humour now:
Should have gone off.
I am impatient of my tarriance.
But wherefore do you droop? why look you sad?
Nay, we shall heat you thoroughly anon.
Take heed, Signior Baptista, lest you be
He's loved of the distracted multitude,
That I essentially am not in madness,
His language in his tears.
and let me desire to know how you find Claudio
Canst thou blame him?
instinct hadst thou for it?
There would he anchor his aspect and die
His eyes do drop no tears, his prayers are in jest;
Tug for the time to come. This you may know
Calpurnia!
Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow-weeds,
The chronicles of my doing, let me say
O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
To call thyself Marina.
ACT V
Unseparable, shall within this hour,
Better than he, why, give my horse to Timon,
Severals and generals of grace exact,
Nor hold him up with hopes; I am not for him:
Acquaint the queen of your most noble offer;
thine ignorance makes thee away: farewell. When
Of Herne the hunter, let us not forget.
have another leek in my pocket, which you shall eat.
Continual meditations, tears, and sorrows,
man; I would have you think so; but, on my
See, what a scourge is laid upon your hate,
And reverend looker on, of two fair queens.
Poison and treason are the hands of sin,
I have sworn 't.
Go, take it up unto thy master's use.
Great griefs, I see, medicine the less; for Cloten
As love is, my lord, before it loves.
As you did mean indeed to be our brother;
Shall we but treason? and indent with fears,
Be singly counterpoised. At sixteen years,
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
Call thee to answer.
It pleases him to call you so; but he hath a
I prithee, call't. For this ungentle business
Yet witness what you hear we did intend:
Fashion'd to Beatrice.
And never show thy head by day nor light.
What!
Sweet air! Go, tenderness of years; take this key,
Together with the terror of the place,--
[To PISANIO]            Hark thee, a word.
I am thy grandam, Richard; call me so.
have almost embossed him; you shall see his fall
That quickens Nilus' slime, I go from hence
You think none but your sheets are privy to your wishes.
Is warlike Lucius general of the Goths?
[Advancing]  Do you hear, monsieur? a word with you.
Thou wilt say anon he is some kin to thee,
Must die to-morrow! O injurious love,
Mercy on me! I have a great dispositions to cry.
Being a thing immortal as itself?
Their touch affrights me as a serpent's sting.
If you thrive well, bring them to Baynard's Castle;
Lead to the Sagittary the raised search;
That which you are my thoughts cannot transpose:
And with such cozenage--is't not perfect conscience,
Enter Mariners wet
Enter a Messenger
I have done enough; a lower place, note well,
Enter the Mayor of Saint Alban's and his  brethren, bearing SIMPCOX, between two in a chair, SIMPCOX's Wife following
Our Earl of Warwick, Edward's greatest friend.
Have benched and reared to worship, who mayst see
There's no such sport as sport by sport o'erthrown,
As who should say 'When I am dead and gone,
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, but the days are wax'd shorter with him:
'tis turned to a rusty armour.
For, as the case now stands, it is a curse
about you, have you?
Shall from this practise but make hard your heart:
Not Caesar's valour hath o'erthrown Antony,
What's the matter?
Hush!
You are a saucy fellow:
Her people out upon her; and Antony,
Come to the pedlar;
That skins the vice o' the top. Go to your bosom;
And the twin Dromio all were taken up;
As thriftless sons their scraping fathers' gold.
sleeps: say on: come to Hecuba.
To base declension and loathed bigamy
Put rancours in the vessel of my peace
And even before this truce, but new before,
Who hath most fortunately been inform'd
In Venice they do let heaven see the pranks
Third, or fourth, or fifth borough, I'll answer him
Should make thee worth them. Blasts and fogs upon thee!
Health and glad tidings to your majesty!
Have loved without this mean, if on both parts
When yet you were in place and in account
I thank you: I am not of many words, but I thank
To do upon respect such violent outrage:
I have bargained for the joint,--
He should have found his uncle Gaunt a father,
Was lineal of the Lady Ermengare,
Dead March. Enter the Funeral of KING HENRY the  Fifth, attended on by Dukes of BEDFORD, Regent of  France; GLOUCESTER, Protector; and EXETER, Earl of WARWICK, the BISHOP OF WINCHESTER, Heralds,  and c
Drawn tuns of blood out of thy country's breast,
Thy tears are womanish; thy wild acts denote
Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell:
Tut, that's a foolish observation:
Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BURGUNDY, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
am undone! I am undone! while I play the good
The news, Rogero?
As you on him, Demetrius dote on you!
I will forget my nature. So kind a father! Be my
That sweet aspect of princes, and their ruin,
No more, you petty spirits of region low,
That durst disperse it.
I look'd not for you yet, nor am provided
Aside
hath an argosy bound to Tripolis, another to the
Rail thou in Fulvia's phrase; and taunt my faults
which I will add
Well are you fitted, had you but a Moor:
And triumph, Henry, in thy day of doom.
Why, then, depart in peace, and let the child wake
Step forth mine advocate; at your request
deal justly with me: come, come; nay, speak.
You have no reason; I do it freely.
'Sicinius!' 'Brutus!' 'Coriolanus!' 'Citizens!'
Unless the master were the man. How now!
Abusing better men than they can be,
this noise?
The unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
And see the noble ruin'd man you speak of.
they escoted? Will they pursue the quality no
We stand up peerless.
And e'er-remaining lamps, the belching whale
Exit
So, out went the candle, and we were left darkling.
Indeed, sir, he that sleeps feels not the
Flourish. Enter POMPEY and MENAS at one door,  with drum and trumpet: at another, OCTAVIUS CAESAR,  MARK ANTONY, LEPIDUS, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, MECAENAS, with Soldiers marching
ear withal, but I will tell thee aloud 'England is
With downright payment, show'd unto my father.
We must both give and take, my gracious lord.
Their aunt I am in law, in love their mother:
Alas! he gets nothing by that. In our last
That our great king himself doth woo me oft
When tongues speak sweetly, then they name her name,
executed: I think we do know the sweet Roman hand.
No, Pompey.
honest man: and touching the Duke of York, I will
But Ajax is their fool.
Alarum still
Ungentle queen, to call him gentle Suffolk!
At chamber--door? and one as great as you are?
Against the use of nature? Present fears
Some lay in dead men's skulls; and, in those holes
I could beat forty of them.
And once more in mine arms I bid him welcome,
When Imogen is dead.
Now, fair befal thee, good Petruchio!
I will, if that my fading breath permit
Basta; content thee, for I have it full.
It makes the consuls base: and my soul aches
The general is content to spare thee yet;
He hath some message to deliver us.
Staying for thine to keep him company:
And let her speak of me before her father:
Hangs on the cutting short that fraudful man.
Enter THERSITES
Hilloa, loa!
Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper,
Then have you lost a sight, which was to be seen,
That I, your vassal, have employ'd and pain'd
What and how true thou art: he will advance thee;
Do villany, do, since you protest to do't,
Lie tumbling in my barefoot way and mount
washed off the next tide.
Your tale must be how he employ'd my mother.
While I sit lazy by.
Ay, that I do; and have done any time these three
One sudden foil shall never breed distrust.
And thou a natural coward, without instinct.
Go call Thersites hither, sweet Patroclus:
Their sacred wills be done! Go, get aboard;
And I challenge law: attorneys are denied me;
I am not mad; too well, too well I feel
howsoever it seems not in him by some large jests
But since unwillingly, take them again.
But to himself so secret and so close,
And say 'Ah, ha! you're caught.'
Nor none of thee, thou pale and common drudge
A gross hag
Urged on the examinations, proofs, confessions
Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn
Faith yes;
Would he were gelt that had it, for my part,
Most mighty sovereign,
were, so fit.
And an adopted name of privilege,
Cock crows
I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
Degrees, observances, customs, and laws,
You undergo too strict a paradox,
Black, forsooth: coal-black as jet.
What's he comes here?
wife. 'Rivo!' says the drunkard. Call in ribs, call in tallow.
Boy, let me see the writing.
In courage, courtship and proportion:
And when he please to make commotion,
with the rusty curb of old father antic the law? Do
My masters, let's stand close: my lord protector
never any thing so sudden but the fight of two rams
This fawning greyhound then did proffer me!
Put out the light, and then put out the light:
Look, where he comes!
And never seen thee, never borne thee son,
Nay, I have done already.
That we may praise thee in the victory!
I know not whether God will have it so,
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Come, let us to the castle.
Come, come, sweet emperor; come, Andronicus;
Within the centre.
Rust, sword? cool, blushes! and, Parolles, live
Nay, her foot speaks; her wanton spirits look out
and here my melancholy. Well, she hath one o' my
My lord.--
To those that wring under the load of sorrow,
Then God forgive the sin of all those souls
As far as I see, all the good our English
I prithee, who?
I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done.
duke is strong.' What say you to that?
And Charles, upon condition thou wilt swear
To be a queen, and crown'd with infamy!
I kept were knaves, to serve in meat to villains.
O good but most unwise patricians! why,
Poisons more deadly than a mad dog's tooth.
Who, Hero?
distract it with many, either to have it sterile
Indeed, Sir John, you said so.
Thou art not holy to belie me so;
And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,
And strike you home without a messenger.
words are a very fantastical banquet, just so many
Flourish
That I might sleep out this great gap of time
not for his counsellor. You are not young, no more
And portance in my travels' history:
I would the cutting of my garments would serve the
Frenchwoman.
Which Pericles hath lost,
for a hot midsummer night; for, good youth, he went
You have your wish; my will is even this:
Doth by the idle comments that it makes
Nor now I had not, but that I am bound
gallants. We lost too much money this mart by being
If ever he have wife, let her he made
Thy news?
Doth lay it open to urge on revenge.
Beshrew the winners, for they play'd me false!
Shipwreck'd upon a kingdom, where no pity,
And yet, alas, now I remember me,
And thou shalt bear it: wilt thou, Silvius?
Forbidden late to carry any weapon,
That opportunity
valiant a man as Mark Antony; and he is a man of no
Come, but one verse.
Is it the fashion, that discarded fathers
You have won a happy victory to Rome;
You have made fair work, I fear me.--Pray, your news?--
Will leap to be his friend: for us, you know,
Which tells me in that glory once he was;
I saw him down; thrice up again and fighting;
of the infinite flatteries that follow youth and opulency.
Have no such daughter, nor shall ever see
be ready at the farthest by five of the clock. See
To take me to thee, as I was to him
avoid that too, with an If. I knew when seven
Pray you, lead on. At every house I'll call;
And tell sad stories of the death of kings;
The Ladies mask
Raining the tears of lamentation
because musicians have no gold for sounding:
Flow'd with her beauty once: 'tis shrewdly ebb'd,
But lusty, young, and cheerly drawing breath.
If fear hath made thee faint, as me it hath--
And yet methinks I do not like this tune.
Record it with your high and worthy deeds:
merchant was this, that was so full of his ropery?
bids me, though you say nothing. Mum, mum,
all three all ready.
Since I am crept in favour with myself,
The noble tribunes are the people's mouths,
I do give lost; for I do feel it gone,
Nothing more dear to me. You are abused
As kill a man, or else devise his death,
Sir, sir, the first's for me; let her go by.
and whatsoever comes athwart his affection ranges
Much under him; of him I gather'd honour;
Are you there, butcher? O, I cannot speak!
Good warrant of.
Some officers take them away: good guard,
I stretch it out for that word 'broad;' which added
our fortunes from us till our oldness cannot relish
Arise forth from the couch of lasting night,
Old woman! what old woman's that?
Enter ERPINGHAM
To strew thy green with flowers: the yellows, blues,
That I was constant Cimber should be banish'd,
For yesternight by Catesby was it brought me;
Exit
God Neptune's annual feast to keep: from whence
Nor never more in Russian habit wait.
Enter MISTRESS OVERDONE
To be more prince, as may be. You are sad.
'Tis our mad sister, I do know her voice.
that am a butcher.
Use me well in 't. Sister, prove such a wife
But by thy help to this distressed queen?
Pool! Sir Pool! lord!
Now, most noble Brutus,
For Mariana's sake: but as he adjudged your brother,--
restrained, captivated, bound.
Exeunt AENEAS and Trojans
Let her not hurt me: I was never curst;
Against the Capitol I met a lion,
Do you the office, friar; which consummate,
To your own conscience, sir, before Polixenes
No, I'll not weep:
What cannoneer begot this lusty blood?
Cry out 'Olivia!' O, You should not rest
I mean, she is brought a-bed.
And tent themselves with death. Of all the horses,
I bought and brought up to attend my sons.
She'll hamper thee, and dandle thee like a baby:
Have you had quiet guard?
I shall have glory by this losing day
From helmet to the spur all blood he was.
What mean you, madam? by my life, my troth,
With Cassio, mistress. Go to, charm your tongue.
Which leaves itself: to the sea-side straightway:
A flourish with drums and trumpets. Exeunt
Shall rain their drift of bullets on this town.
conflict four of his five wits went halting off, and
I'll have no father, if you be not he:
Since many a wooer doth commence his suit
This do thou for my love; and so let him,
Thou took'st a beggar; wouldst have made my throne
He needs no indirect nor lawless course
I hear none, madam.
Beyond the river we'll encamp ourselves,
they come to Berwick, from whence they came.
Who does i' the wars more than his captain can
The grave of your deserving; Rome must know
And bear his charging of wooing, whatsoe'er.
I say, but mark his gesture. Marry, patience;
He shall again relate.
were, too peregrinate, as I may call it.
I have said.
My sword should shed hot blood, mine eyes no tears.
Thou art a fool to bid me farewell twice.
We know him for no less, though we are but strangers
No.
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
Tarry, rash wanton: am not I thy lord?
May sweep to my revenge.
The time right deadly; I beseech you, go.
With, ho! such bugs and goblins in my life,
What though I be enthrall'd? he seems a knight,
My thought, whose murder yet is but fantastical,
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Offer'st me brass?
'Tis, 'tis his fortune.
O night, which ever art when day is not!
Than a wild dedication of yourselves
Go back again, and be new beaten home?
Take, therefore, shipping; post, my lord, to France;
Ay, and twenty such.
Be not as common fools; if you are not,
So the poor chicken should be sure of death.
As to offend, himself being offended;
With this my son, Prince Edward, Henry's heir,
to the madman.
O, I am slain! famine and no other hath slain me:
If we are mark'd to die, we are enow
My Lord of Somerset will keep me here,
toads carbonadoed.
We charge you, that you have contrived to take
And only in that safety died her brothers.
I cannot dream of: I entreat you both,
Exit
That tends to vice in man, but I affirm
The sweeter welcome, we will keep ourself
Let not my cold words here accuse my zeal:
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
God help, poor souls, how idly do they talk!
nieces; Mercutio and his brother Valentine; mine
Belonging to a man. O, be some other name!
prayers; for, look you, the warrant's come.
In dangerous wars, whilst you securely slept;
As I had made my meal, and parted
Give you good night.
Methought the souls of all that I had murder'd
From reason's yielding, your fair self should make
Who? thy lord? that is my lord, Leonatus!
war, and in the derivation of my birth, and in
To him that, for your honour and your state,
Yes, mercy, if you report him truly.
Maintain a mourning ostentation
So under Him that great supremacy,
How dost thou mean a fat marriage?
Sir, royal sir, forgive a foolish woman:
To consolate thine ear. Come, night; end, day!
Should solder up the rift.
No cause, no cause.
Have with you, prince. My courteous lord, adieu.
And that you fly them as you swear them lordship,
The good-years shall devour them, flesh and fell,
Seizing LAVINIA
have need of poor ones, poor ones may make what
from Don Armado: I beseech you, read it.
Being now seen possible enough, got credit,
In weightier things you'll say a beggar nay.
Wash they his wounds with tears: mine shall be spent,
If not a usuring kindness, and, as rich men deal gifts,
O heavens! it cannot be.
His greatness is a-ripening, nips his root,
O Hermione,
But pity her.
If sight and shape be true,
Friendship is constant in all other things
We first address towards you, who with this king
Re-enter KING LEAR
Lead in your ladies, every one: sweet partner,
'The duke yet lives, that Henry shall depose;
Do so conjointly meet, let not men say
Let him be sent for.
Then murders, treasons and detested sins,
Till he have cross'd the Severn. Happiness!
You would abate the strength of your displeasure.
Gramercies, good fool: how does your mistress?
Her father will be angry.
Thou unsubstantial air that I embrace!
Exit
Had you been there, I think you would have begg'd
Hear it apart.
Requires nor child nor woman's face to see.
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
Rosaline, by good hap.
Three thousand times within this three years' space;
Is perjured to the bosom? Proteus,
We will bear home that lusty blood again
He'll tickle it for his concupy.
Indeed, indeed, sirs, but this troubles me.
And prompt me, that my tongue may utter forth
Commanded of me those most poisonous compounds,
cost me two thousand ducats in Frankfort! The curse
Wilt thou at Ninny's tomb meet me straightway?
Here is your servant. How now, sir! What news?
Hear me, hear me what I say: he that strikes the
My tears for glasses, and still make me weep.
Exeunt
Regard me as I do not flatter, and
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
Unless that husband send it me from heaven
Peace be to France, if France in peace permit
Indeed, my lord, he lent it me awhile; and I gave
When one is one too many? Go, get thee from the door.
She is,
Simple of itself; I'll no pullet-sperm in my brewage.
He's very likely now to fall from him,
Come to thy heart as that within my breast!
fronts encountering,
he is best, he is a little worse than a man, and
Are you content to stay?
I mean, to go, sir, to enter.
A sceptre, or an earthly sepulchre!'
Take thou my soldiers, prisoners, patrimony;
is a region in Guiana, all gold and bounty. I will
'Tis dry enough,--will, with great speed of judgment,
Exeunt all but BRUTUS
Enter SHYLOCK
Richer than doing nothing for a bauble,
How dearly they do't! 'Tis her breathing that
You'll take it ill.
whilst he railed at me. 'Sfoot, I'll learn to
Oh! Oh! Oh!
But woo her, gentle Paris, get her heart,
That is enough to satisfy the senate.
And thou this day hadst kept thy chair in peace.
And there they hull, expecting but the aid
I still pour in the waters of my love
What says King Bolingbroke? will his majesty
Approach thou like the rugged Russian bear,
As great Alcides' shows upon an ass:
O, villain that I am!
that I love thee. If my uncle, thy banished father,
I prithee, give me leave to curse awhile.
Low alarums
What, will your highness leave the parliament?
The uncertain glory of an April day,
I have loved her ever since I saw her; and still I
if you mean to save yourself from whipping, leap me
To fill the world with vicious qualities.
Were poor and single business to contend
For we will make for Ireland presently.
May we see them?
I was.
Thou judgest false already: I mean, thou shalt have
about Signior Leonato's door; for the wedding being
I do appoint him store of provender:
'If once he come to be a cardinal,
As modest stillness and humility:
An evident calamity, though we had
in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the
That you have but slumber'd here
Come hither, cover'd with an antic face,
Garnish'd like him, that for a tricksy word
the inter'gatories: demand them singly.
That would to cinders burn up modesty,
When she was dear to us, we did hold her so;
To steal from spiritual leisure a brief span
KING JOHN dies
If any think brave death outweighs bad life
do his kind.
Exit THALIARD
beggar dwell near him; or, the church stands by thy
Is it so nominated in the bond?
To-morrow, or next day, they will be here.
A Roman with a Roman's heart can suffer:
And having lost her breath, she spoke, and panted,
This, Decius Brutus.
Fear'd by their breed and famous by their birth,
me; and take me, take a soldier; take a soldier,
That hid the worse and show'd the better face.
And know some nurture. But forbear, I say:
Ye're honest men: ye've heard that I have gold;
I pray you all, stand up.
Hence from Verona art thou banished:
but to play at loggats with 'em? mine ache to think on't.
it a match, and I doubt not but to fashion it, if
With that face?
Bless him at home in peace, whilst I from far
With heigh! the sweet birds, O, how they sing!
mio Petruchio.' Rise, Grumio, rise: we will compound
Art not thou a merchant?
Sick in the world's regard, wretched and low,
After our great good cheer. Pray you, sit down;
cushion, or to be entombed in an ass's pack-
I have long loved her, and, I protest to you,
Very well mended. Kiss him for that, good widow.
Her chariot is an empty hazel-nut
Re-enter BOULT
Yet hear me speak. Assist me in my purpose,
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message,
If I be not, heavens be revenged on me!
Exit MARGARET
And you but waste your words.
Where rude misgovern'd hands from windows' tops
They are fairies; he that speaks to them shall die:
in love. With who? now that is your grace's part.
Truly, young gentlemen, though there was no great
Command the rest to stand. God and our right!
That shall you, and take your leave of all your friends.
SCENE I. A room in the prison.
I am sorry, sir, that I have hinder'd you;
And, to be more than what you were, you would
Will keep a league till death. Hie thee to France
I have no more to say, But bid Bianca farewell for
gravity to play at cherry-pit with Satan: hang
I'ld strive to tell you. We were dead of sleep,
Steeples and moss-grown towers. At your birth
What judgment shall I dread, doing
The midwife wonder'd and the women cried
Rouse him and give him note of our approach.
That fell away have entertainment, but
Who most humbly desires you to invite Hector to his tent,--
Now go to the door, and stay there till we call.
nor crop the ears of them.
To know your answer, whether you'll admit him.
By their proscriptions, Cicero being one.
Let thy song be love: this love will undo us all.
Whither would you have me?
Quiet consummation have;
Je ne doute point d'apprendre, par la grace de Dieu,
ACT IV
That had to him derived your anger, did I
Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
She said thou wast my daughter; and thy father
will;'tis strongly wedged up in a block-head, but
If none appear to prove upon thy head
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
thou, Master Brook, shalt know him for knave and
That which thyself hast now disclosed to me.
And when your honours mean to solemnize
That idles in the wanton summer air,
rest, as I said, and, as I say, paying for them very
I have; 'tis ready.
Prince of Wales, as I have read in the chronicles,
The least of all these signs were probable.
That is the true beginning of our end.
the health of black Othello.
Myself an enemy to all other joys,
O, peace! and the spirit of humour intimate reading
Tush! never tell me; I take it much unkindly
Or died where they were made, or shortly after
Ah, Gaunt, his blood was thine! that bed, that womb,
Or some enchanted trifle to abuse me,
that frailty hath examples for his falling, I should
To LUCIUS
[Awaking]  When my cue comes, call me, and I will
Shall be accomplish'd without contradiction:
The wretched, bloody, and usurping boar,
Which first, perchance, she'll prove on
Marrying my sister that thy mother was,
A wandering vagabond; my rights and royalties
Was dukedom large enough: of temporal royalties
Exit Boy
Hold, hold; meanwhile here's money for thy charges.
Here he comes, and in the gown of humility: mark his
Of Jaques Falconbridge, solemnized
Hers it was not.
To pay that duty which you truly owe
thou hast thumped him with thy bird-bolt under the
The father rashly slaughter'd his own son,
had as lief be wooed of a snail.
Therefore to make his entrance more sweet,
Of butcher'd princes fight in thy behalf
My dear wife's estimate, her womb's increase,
Though wayward fortune did malign my state,
She adulterates hourly with thine uncle John,
beadle, whip him till he leap over that same stool.
Navarre had notice of your fair approach;
Stay we no longer, dreaming of renown,
give express charge, that in our marches through the
Well-sailing ships and bounteous winds have brought
Or pack to their old playfellows: there, I take it,
Hark! you are call'd: some say the Genius so
The rampant bear chain'd to the ragged staff,
O that my death would stay these ruthful deeds!
As shall to thee blot out what wrongs were theirs
Pursue him to his house, and pluck him thence:
Nay, come, let's go together.
Our temple was he married. Rise, and fade.
proportion; rests me his minim rest, one, two, and
Have I pluck'd off, to grace thy brows withal:
Aside
How! how!
As from a voyage, rich with merchandise.
Exeunt POLIXENES, HERMIONE, and Attendants
I gave my love a ring and made him swear
thankful for it.
Nay, go not from us thus.
And by still practise learn to know thy meaning.
fellow by the leg.
Believe me, this may be: he promised to meet me two
A falsehood in its contrary as great
His pleasure; may be he will relent. Alas,
Such welcome and unwelcome things at once
deuce-ace amounts to.
esteemed greatness, will you hear the dialogue that
I pray thee, if it stand with honesty,
The mayor towards Guildhall hies him in all post:
No matter whither, so you come not here.
Say, wherefore didst thou lock me forth to-day?
That have been so bedazzled with the sun
Thus must I from the smoke into the smother;
O worthy Goth, this is the incarnate devil
Go to.
It may be probable she lost it; or
A sight most pitiful in the meanest wretch,
Sought to entrap me by intelligence;
your thoughts be servants to you! Be comfortable
Why tell you me of moderation?
Day serves not light more faithful than I'll be.
Read it not, noble lords;
Enter HAMLET
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
rather than hold three words' conference with this
You must borrow me Gargantua's mouth first: 'tis a
Against my very heart. Poor souls, they perish'd.
Sir Valentine her company and my court:
If idle talk will once be necessary,
Where Henry and dame Margaret kneel'd to me
My mistress with a monster is in love.
Most mighty Caesar, let me know some cause,
So rich advantage of a promised glory
Pray you, take note of it: and when you have
SCENE III. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
Was not that letter from fair Jessica?
Thou idle dreamer, wherefore didst thou so?
Upon his party: he, mistrusting them,
To heal Rome's harms, and wipe away her woe!
Hug their diseased perfumes, and have forgot
When gallant-springing brave Plantagenet,
slave, strike.
Re-enter Hostess
O world, thy slippery turns! Friends now fast sworn,
Now, by my George, my garter, and my crown,--
And Dick the Butcher,--
Enter PERICLES, with his train; LYSIMACHUS, HELICANUS, MARINA, and a Lady
I am too perfect in; and, but for shame,
For she is with me: no, when light-wing'd toys
I do not know you so good a man as myself: so
As if he were the right Vincentio
My figured goblets for a dish of wood,
Ay, but to die, and go we know not where;
Did softly press the rushes, ere he waken'd
That the bleak air, thy boisterous chamberlain,
You may not so extenuate his offence
'Tis past, and so am I. But what art thou
When workmen strive to do better than well,
No father owning it,--which is, indeed,
But lately, very late: I loved him, friend;
The bonny priser of the humorous duke?
So shall each lord of Greece, from tent to tent:
My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long borne
As rank as any flax-wench that puts to
That thought you worthy of it.
How to respect you; you are the lord of duty;
We are advertised by our loving friends
That she which marries you must marry me,
To strike him dead, I hold it not a sin.
How! my issue!
[Aside]  'Tis better playing with a lion's whelp
Should she kneel down in mercy of this fact,
'Twas not a haud credo; 'twas a pricket.
Music still, with shouts
We go to gain a little patch of ground
a muzzle and enfranchised with a clog; therefore I
Than terms can give thee out!
Or, like obedient subjects, follow him
Before the expiration of thy time,
But must be look'd to speedily and strongly.
And Henry is my king, Warwick his subject.
And now he's there, past thought of human reason.
proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offences at
Unreconciled as yet to heaven and grace,
The dashing rocks thy sea-sick weary bark!
SCENE XIII. Alexandria. Cleopatra's palace.
princess of England, Elizabeth!
Have not the grace to grace it with such show.
But tell me, wench, how will the world repute me
counters; so the acquittance follows.
Murder's as near to lust as flame to smoke:
They were trained together in their childhoods; and
SCENE III. The frontiers of Mantua. The forest.
Of prouder stuff than that of Beatrice;
Sweet mistress--what your name is else, I know not,
Do you love me, master? no?
will not be entreated. Speak to him, ladies; see if
Your breach of promise to the Porpentine.
And thou art twice her love.
Nor you, mistress,
treachers, by spherical predominance; drunkards,
Iron may hold with her, but never lutes.
What ceremony else?
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
Speak, man.
I am never merry when I hear sweet music.
Exeunt FERDINAND and MIRANDA severally
Stay not to question, for the watch is coming;
And, as I am a gentleman, I credit him.
A murderous villain, and so still thou art.
Stay, gentle Margaret, and hear me speak.
bigger than pins' heads, and they have bought out
Stand fast together, lest some friend of Caesar's
What is your news?
but slenderly known himself.
Which are the children of an idle brain,
never saw you before in all my life.
The sheep: the other two concludes it,--o, u.
Sweet, so would I:
And not from one opposed.
Hath yielded up his body to the grave;
With voices and applause of every sort,
I must be round with him, now he comes from hunting.
This was thy daughter.
Flourish. Enter KING LEWIS XI, his sister BONA,  his Admiral, called BOURBON, PRINCE EDWARD, QUEEN  MARGARET, and OXFORD. KING LEWIS XI sits, and riseth up again
is the right Vincentio.
So you have: but I was a gentleman born before my
They ravish'd her, and cut away her tongue;
There cannot be a pinch in death
The throned monarch better than his crown;
That shall distil from these two ancient urns,
The imperious churchman, Somerset, Buckingham,
Striking too short at Greeks; his antique sword,
Sound drums and trumpets, and the king will fly.
I have not art to reckon my groans: but that
I'll do't, my lord.
The queen is obstinate,
Hence! wilt thou lift up Olympus?
With orange-tawny bill,
Were there necessity in your request, although
The breath is gone whereof this praise is made:
When thou hast hung thy advanced sword i' the air,
Are as the time is: to be tender-minded
that is certain; and of great expedition and
the happiness of life.
disposition, and ask me what you will. I will grant
And awful rule and right supremacy;
Throws down one mountain to cast up a higher.
Canst not read?
So incapable of help.
Did call my father, was I know not where
What means Sicilia?
I'll give you a verse to this note that I made
your promise.
To a Servant
Well, I know not
Is there scarce ask'd for who; and good men's lives
your brother how well I counterfeited. Heigh-ho!
What then!
Upon his own report and I believe it;
Pray you, tell him
Bear the boy hence; he shall not come about her;
I cry you mercy, madam; was it you?
Then let the ladies tattle what they please.
With all the honours on my brother: whereon,
Things of like value differing in the owners
Where is thy conscience now?
He shall be answerable; and so farewell.
were the most needless creatures living, should we
Ah, whither shall I fly to 'scape their hands?
As if the world should cleave, and that slain men
Unto a dunghill which shall be thy grave,
Proclaims how she esteem'd him and his virtue;
To be new-varnish'd! Well, but to my choice:
Or if that surly spirit, melancholy,
If it should give your age such cause of fear:
Possess them not with fear; take from them now
But justly, as you have exceeded all promise,
march of twelve-score. The money shall be paid
Come, you are so full of cony-catching!
Before the belching whale; then is he yonder,
Sweet prince, you learn me noble thankfulness.
for a hen! So, my good window of lattice, fare thee
And those but mean.
She tells me here, she'd wed the stranger knight,
And nought esteems my aged eloquence:
And make a quagmire of your mingled brains.
You.
As to have ask'd him pardon. Let this fellow
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
May equally determine.
But I will wear my heart upon my sleeve
Or in his emmence that fills it up,
Macduff lives in disgrace: sir, can you tell
None else of name and noble estimate.
That, in a spleen, unfolds both heaven and earth,
O,
He that plays the king shall be welcome; his majesty
Methought you said
My boy a bastard! By my soul, I think
were she earthly, no nobler,--whither do you follow
And find the inheritance of this poor child,
Is now due debt. To the grave!
Caesar to you; in plain dealing, Pompey, I shall
Ditch-deliver'd by a drab,
In those foundations which I build upon,
proud, violent, testy magistrates, alias fools, as
they're half fish, half flesh: a plague on them,
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
From whence, I think, you are come by miracle.
Caesar, now be still:
Does show the mood of a much troubled breast;
But tell me whom thou seek'st.
Speak on; but be not over-tedious.
To win thy after-love I pardon thee.
The beauty of his daughter; he himself
So runs the world away.
Good night, my lord.
Sir, this is the house: please it you that I call?
From the possession of this heavenly sight!
For to strange sores strangely they strain the cure.
Worthy Macbeth, we stay upon your leisure.
First let me talk with this philosopher.
Call for some men of sound direction
But I disdain'd it, and did scorn to fly:
Unto the king be by, and then his state
of good fellowship come to you! What, shall we be
And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?
And carry back to Sicily much tall youth
While as the silly owner of the goods
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
O, ominous! he comes to kill my heart.
And God forgive them that so much have sway'd
Marry, they say my uncle grew so fast
That may offend the isle.--But here they come:
I had forgot; three months; you told me so.
O Seigneur Dieu!
sun.
brother John; this to my Lord of Westmoreland.
That did but lately foil the sinewy Charles;
This, in our foresaid holy father's name,
Is full of weeds, her fairest flowers choked up,
Then our office may,
Exeunt
Enough; I read your fortune in your eye.
My sister may receive it much more worse,
Why didst thou send me forth, brave Cassius?
It will let in and out the enemy
Revenge yourselves alone on Cassius,
Bearing their birthrights proudly on their backs,
On me, whose all not equals Edward's moiety?
As sparrows eagles, or the hare the lion.
And she an eater of her mother's flesh,
On either side I come to spend my breath;
And since you could not be my son-in-law,
Women may fall, when there's no strength in men.
Saving your merry humour, here's the note
We do exhibit to your majesty.
Farewell. Who shall answer him?
Mine eyes are made the fools o' the other senses,
He will not be commanded: here's another,
So is the dear'st o' the loss.
That this is from some mistress, some remembrance:
But what's that Pucelle whom they term so pure?
To say what good respect I have of thee.
it one way, for the prince hath got your Hero.
Is in his retirement marvellous distempered.
discipline come not near thee! Let thy blood be thy
Nor a musician, as I seem to be;
I pray you, tell it.
I do beseech you, sir, have patience:
Exit
Drum and trumpet, chambers discharged
With that same purpose-changer, that sly devil,
[Reciting to himself]  'When we for recompense have
Shall I twice lose.
Behold this maid: all corners else o' the earth
Who, impotent and bed-rid, scarcely hears
--Whose wrongs in us God pardon!--did set forth
Therefore farewell; I see thou know'st me not.
If you had been the wife of Hercules,
With hearts more proof than shields. Advance,
'Tis unreasonable! Will you take up your wife's
No better than the earth he lies upon,
In this distracted globe. Remember thee!
And what says she, I pray, sir?
When I to sulphurous and tormenting flames
Let us score their backs,
voutsafe me, look you, a few disputations with you,
Why, if thou never wast at court, thou never sawest
head, you would eat chickens i' the shell.
I am content.
To show how quaint an orator you are:
And I'll be chief to bring him down again:
A lord of Trojan blood, nephew to Hector;
Scarce serves to quench my furnace-burning heart:
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
Jove shield your husband from his hounds to-day!
O, now I want the priest that spake to me:
I commend my duty to your lordship.
Whose fury not dissembled speaks his griefs:
That I have fondly flatter'd her withal.
Full weak to undertake our wars against
And sundry blessings hang about his throne,
Into this breathing world, scarce half made up,
Teaches such beauty as a woman's eye?
They had begun the play--I sat me down,
The nature of his great offence is dead,
Waged equal with him.
king Charles, and William de la Pole, Marquess of
Keep a gamester from the dice, and a good student
Give dreadful note of preparation:
She is a woman, therefore to be won.
Why would you be so fond to overcome
But, to Orlando: did he leave him there,
With all the strength and armour of the mind,
My father came untimely to his death?
Of breaches, ambuscadoes, Spanish blades,
professed apprehension?
Thy fault our law calls death; but the kind prince,
Such as it is; and for mine own poor part,
Out with it boldly: truth loves open dealing.
Wear it, enjoy it, and make much of it.
Inhuman traitors, you constrain'd and forced.
Go, my dread lord, to your great-grandsire's tomb,
A pestilence on him! now will he be mocking:
By any likelihood he show'd to-day?
I beseech your graces both to pardon me;
You have put him down, lady, you have put him down.
man to labour in his vocation.
E'en as the o'erflowing Nilus presageth famine.
Which the rather
A rage whose heat hath this condition,
One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
I Pandulph, of fair Milan cardinal,
You may;
Who shall hinder me?
Bring us to his cave:
Ay, but the doors be lock'd and keys kept safe,
Hubert, the utterance of a brace of tongues
Come at my heels, Jack Rugby.
Do the boys carry it away?
Against his brother and his lawful king?
Wherewith you now bedew King Henry's hearse,
That beats upon the high shore of this world,
Never, Paulina; so be blest my spirit!
Sweeten the bitter mock you sent his majesty,
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
The one ne'er got me credit, the other mickle blame.
Of that fell poison which assaileth him.
Who quickly fell before him: in which hurtling
I was told that  by one that knows him better than
And bleat the one at the other: what we changed
In that and all your worthiest affairs.
Well, thereby hangs a tale: good faith, it is such
These couples shall eternally be knit:
Let her not say 'tis I that keep you here:
To wait, said I? to wanton with this queen,
It's supper-time, my lord;
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS, before their tent
Is it possible that any villany should be so dear?
May easily win a woman's. Ay, my mother,
he have wit enough to keep himself warm, let him
That were impossible: but, I pray you both,
And now have toil'd their unbreathed memories
Mort Dieu!
We will, fair queen, up to the mountain's top,
Many a morning hath he there been seen,
The healing benediction. With this strange virtue,
Where's the cook? is supper ready, the house
That lived amongst men.
preserve it from tainting: but I see you have some
Are these, I pray you, wind-instruments?
She'll take the enterprise upon her, father,
So, the good horse is mine.
Alas, I am the mother of these moans!
And graced thy poor sire with his bridal-day,
Whereat a villain's not a welcome guest.
And makes a god of such a cullion:
Lies my consent and fair according voice.
And had he match'd according to his state,
A gentleman.
Go to, you're a dry fool; I'll no more of you:
Say that some lady, as perhaps there is,
To TOUCHSTONE
The king is full of grace and fair regard.
I know you well, sir, and you know
held the very garment of Posthumus in more respect
no honest man dat shall come in my closet.
He broke from those that had the guard of him;
hither: let it be thy lint service; go.
My dear?
[Within]  What, ho! Peace here; grace and good company!
Of honourable reckoning are you both;
as to play the coward with thy indenture and show it
'I would be consul,' says he: 'aged custom,
The proud control of fierce and bloody war,
The labour we delight in physics pain.
To have a foolish wife.
SCENE III. Another part of the island.
did but try us this other day.
Is longer than the tale thou dost excuse.
worst thing about him, how could Master Froth do the
Which was your shame, by this unholy braggart,
This a consul? no.
What's like to be their words: 'we did request it;
That she beloved knows nought that knows not this:
Indeed, good lady,
Judge me the world, if 'tis not gross in sense
Yet you will be hanged for being so long absent; or,
No, no, they would not do so foul a deed;
Made prize and purchase of his lustful eye,
grandsire, that we should be thus afflicted with
For yet I am not look'd on in the world.
And what does else want credit, come to me,
for it. He surely affected her for her wit.
For I am nothing, if not critical.
Now mingled with their courages, will make known
Before and in Corioli, let me say,
Aaron is gone; and my compassionate heart
I do beseech thee--
Thou now request'st but moonshine in the water.
I hear him coming: let's withdraw, my lord.
A friend.
Die in the fall. But 'tis not so with me:
Where on a sudden one hath wounded me,
Of what should stead her most?
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel;
These were her words, utter'd with mad disdain:
But prove a chief offender in the same?
And will not trust one of her malice with
I think you know him; Master Doctor Caius, the
Finding it so inclined.
Be not ta'en tardy by unwise delay.
Did an Egyptian to my mother give;
Ay, marry, what is he?
I see the trick on't: here was a consent,
Where should we have our thanks?
Enter SERVILIUS
As I had leave of means?
Well, sir, for want of other idleness, I'll bide your proof.
But, ah, I will not! yet I love thee well;
That they are not the first of fortune's slaves,
married man'?
Of what is past.
But with as humble lowliness of mind
Like interrupted waters and o'erbear
To make the service greater than the god
And they shall be themselves.
I better brook than flourishing peopled towns:
So soon forsaken? young men's love then lies
Enter Nurse
we are come off
Is now again thwarting the wayward seas,
beseech you, be ruled by your well-willers. I will
Now, Antony, our hopes are answered:
If you do sorrow at my grief in love,
So did we all. But, come, let's home.
Thou wast within a ken: O Jove! I think
A hundred thousand more; in surety of the which,
If not, bleed France, and peace ascend to heaven,
She that in wisdom never was so frail
To tell this tale of mine.
And wrangle with my reason that persuades me
Henry the Fifth, that made all France to quake,
I must needs after him, madam, with my letter.
spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by,
Stop there, stop there.
Which seem to move and wanton with her breath,
Cousin, of many men
And to the love and favor of my country
Is this thy cunning, thou deceitful dame?
Thou told'st me, when we came from horse, the place
Enter PAROLLES guarded, and First Soldier
Pleased with this dainty bait, thus goes to bed.
The hazard therefore due fall on me by
Give me.
Noble sir,
More quaint, more pleasing, nor more commendable:
Good Clarence, do; sweet Clarence, do thou do it.
And she believes, wherever they are gone,
Have found the ground of study's excellence
Exeunt LUCILIUS and TITINIUS
acquaintance too. Your name, I beseech you, sir?
We are again forsworn, in will and error.
Come, my masters; the duchess, I tell you, expects
Page; to know if it were my master's fortune to
Else your memory is bad, going o'er it erewhile.
To a lady of France that he call'd Rosaline.
Very many, men and women too. I heard of one of
My uses cry to me, I must serve my turn
This gentleman, my Cadwal, Arviragus,
fencing, dancing and bear-baiting: O, had I but
If she pertain to life let her speak too.
Of capital treason 'gainst the king and crown;
An age of discord and continual strife?
Exit
To his grand sea.
Now I have taken heart thou vanishest:
You came in arms to spill mine enemies' blood,
How many then should cover that stand bare!
Blessing upon you!
BISHOP
'Tis time, I think, to trudge, pack and be gone.
and eat, I swear--
Now, knock when I bid you, sirrah villain!
To find out practises of cunning hell,
But, if't be he I mean, he's very wild;
I see no reason, if I wear this rose,
and, masters, do not forget to specify, when time
Though written in our flesh, we shall remember
Exit
Thou hast not done before.
What's the matter, good Mistress Page?
To most ignoble stooping.
not: yet art thou good for nothing but taking up; and
You, like a lecher, out of whorish loins
As one that surfeits thinking on a want.
wives be as free as heart can wish or tongue can tell.
Exeunt
And you shall pay well for 'em.
it is pity of her life, for it is a naughty house.
And now they never meet in grove or green,
My grained ash an hundred times hath broke
Where mine his thoughts did kindle,--that our stars,
Enter a Messenger
Come up into my chamber.
Seal'd in my function, by my testimony:
body in the house, here will be an old abusing of
Let them not live to taste this land's increase
As I wear mine, are titles but of scorn.
than I do with her, I thank heaven.
think him as concave as a covered goblet or a
as any man in Illyria.
Against my will to do myself this wrong.
The table's full.
I go to certify her Talbot's here.
All pity choked with custom of fell deeds:
I'll begin it,--Ding, dong, bell.
She carry armour as she hath begun.
Come, come, I'll hear no more of this; I'll sing
Let me hire him too: here's my coxcomb.
Into what dangers would you lead me, Cassius,
What is thy name?
Some few odd lads that you remember not.
There's not the meanest spirit on our party
four; and, with a word, out-faced you from your
Not so; I think she lives.
Thou wast the prettiest babe that e'er I nursed:
You stubborn ancient knave, you reverend braggart,
Even so myself bewails good Gloucester's case
I am a woeful suitor to your honour,
Of every fool, whose sense no more can feel
We scorn her most when most she offers blows.
As well as I am doubtless I can purge
And part your mingled colours once again;
And wherefore gaze this goodly company,
O, I am scalded with my violent motion,
Before thy sovereign and thy lawful king?
Nor I no strength to climb without thy help.
My patience here is touch'd. I do perceive
company last night at supper; a kind of auditor; one
Master, your love must live a maid at home;
Weaves tedious snares to trap mine enemies.
But this thy countenance, still lock'd in steel,
And in that quarrel use it to the death.
'Twas neither Charles nor yet the duke I named,
And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and MISTRESS QUICKLY
When nobles are their tailors' tutors;
ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
And but in purged judgment trusting neither?
safety: you have been a great thief by sea.
And he's composed of harshness. I must remove
I pay thy poverty, and not thy will.
Would ever have, to incur a general mock,
I never saw a better-fashion'd gown,
Now expectation, tickling skittish spirits,
Avaunt, thou witch! Come, Dromio, let us go.
Say you so? then I shall pose you quickly.
We are your guest to-night.
To make a bondmaid and a slave of me;
Paint till a horse may mire upon your face,
To speak of peace or war.
Tell me your counsels, I will not disclose 'em:
Prithee, let him.
Strike heaven on the face, that it resounds
But then the mind much sufferance doth o'er skip,
Mistress Ford. You dissembling knight!
Exit
Open, locks,
This seal'd-up counsel. There's thy guerdon; go.
Thy words move rage and not remorse in me:
Which time shall bring to ripeness: she shall be--
Since now we will divest us both of rule,
their leave: and there is a forerunner come from a
I will attend upon your lordship's leisure.
Brother, good day; what means this armed guard
So did he never the sparrow.
And all for use of that which is mine own.
The cardinal is the end of this.
Humbly I thank your grace.
between, but small thanks for my labour.
To know from whence we are.
What think you they portend?
Of reasonable affairs? is he not stupid
If the king had no son, they would desire to live
Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE
imposition: oft got without merit, and lost without
She is deliver'd, lords; she is deliver'd.
Pray, tell 'em thus much from me:
How now! What's the matter?
We are impressed and engaged to fight,
Clap's into 'Light o' love;' that goes without a
Then, executioner, unsheathe thy sword:
As the Antipodes are unto us,
On you than any; so your hand and heart,
Advocate's the court-word for a pheasant: say you
I sent the king? Is there no way to cure this?
Health shall live free and sickness freely die.
Why, this boy will carry a letter twenty mile, as
Shall witness to him I am near at home,
Ha! known!
I will weary you then no longer with idle talking.
Going
My liege, it is young Henry, earl of Richmond.
Your legs did better service than your hands.
I am unfit for state and majesty;
not according to the disciplines of the war: the
'Yea,' let them say, to stick the heart of falsehood,
Your wife, my lord; your true
Enter ARIEL
Go, rascals, go, and fetch my supper in.
Thy bed, lust-stain'd, shall with lust's blood be spotted.
Third Serving-man	And I will see what physic the tavern affords.
I think he will eat all he kills.
for I must let you understand I think myself in
A private whisper, no, not with such friends
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
that's no matter, the greater part carries it. I
Ay, when my father was in Rome she did.
We lose it not, so long as we can smile.
Exit LADY MACDUFF, crying 'Murder!' Exeunt Murderers, following her
it wants matter to prevent so gross o'erreaching as
My noble masters, hear me speak.
seest thou not what a deformed thief this fashion
That we, the sons of brave Plantagenet,
Converses apart with FERDINAND, and delivers him a paper
Let them be welcome then: we are prepared.
Make wells and Niobes of the maids and wives,
Sir, she can turn, and turn, and yet go on,
As will the rest, so willeth Winchester.
O sun,
For I must use thee.
Truly, the souls of men are full of dread:
So do not I: go, coward as thou art.
Here, sir! here, sir! here, sir! here, sir!
stole from Florence, taking no leave, and I follow
At our more leisure shall I render you;
Sleep his seat on thy eyelid:
O, he is mad, Laertes.
Here! go; the desk, the purse! sweet, now, make haste.
I would it would be quiet.
And we mean well in going to this mask;
We sent unto the Temple, unto his chamber;
And mine; but it grows something stale with me.
You sulphurous and thought-executing fires,
But I'll deceive you in another sort,
Give me that boy, and I will go with thee.
But that thou art so fast mine enemy.
'Tis nine o'clock: our friends all stay for you.
They are as innocent as grace itself:
unkindest tied that ever any man tied.
Your hand; a covenant: we will have these things set
May turn by fortune from the weaker hand:
Which art possess'd now to depose thyself.
Were enough noble to be upright judge
About Sir William Blomer,--
To Bristol castle, which they say is held
Himself love's traitor: this is pity now,
Go waken Juliet, go and trim her up;
Neither, my lord.
Come hither, you rogue. What, have you forgot me?
and then have to't a fresh. Sweet Bianca! Happy man
And by opposing end them? To die: to sleep;
travel; it might pass: yet the scarfs and the
Away, thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant;
The QUEEN drops the box: PISANIO takes it up
A banish'd traitor: all my treasury
Dare no man answer in a case of truth?
and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear
Was call'd Sicilius, who did join his honour
And as wicked as his wife?
That's my master, master doctor.
To all the rout, then hold me dangerous.
To overtake thee. Would thou hadst less deserved,
Where some, like magistrates, correct at home,
If I begin the battery once again,
whence you had it.
His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell.
Assemble we immediate council: Pompey
And they have nursed this woe, in feeding life;
Of my conception. The state, whereon I studied
indeed: I like not when a 'oman has a great peard;
Though last, not last in love, yours, good Trebonius.
not but to die a fair death for all this, if I
But died thy sister of her love, my boy?
For our approach shall so much dare the field
Together; to consider further that
I conjure you, by that which you profess,
is he: now, you are not ipse, for I am he.
Let four captains
I hear him as he flatter'd.
I will write.
God give him joy!
And worthless Valentine shall be forgot.
To meet Mark Antony: sirrah Iras, go.
As Scythian Tomyris by Cyrus' death.
more condoling.
Be not dismay'd, for succor is at hand:
From what it purposed; since, to wail friends lost
The enemy, marching along by them,
ungartered!
Till I have told this slander of his blood,
I am a subject fit to jest withal,
[Aside]  I am not in the mind but I were better to be
Fast to the chair: be heedful: hence, and watch.
To shallow rivers, to whose falls
Do thou amend thy face, and I'll amend my life:
How say you by this change?
My heart was to thy rudder tied by the strings,
Now, sweet lord,
Wast born to bear? I was not made a horse;
love, 'tis very possible he'll scorn it; for the
As thus for thus and such a grief for such,
Even on the instant.
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
I will hereupon confess I am in love: and as it is
Mine honour's such a ring:
on no water.
hand, Menas: if our eyes had authority, here they
beholding. Advise the duke, where you are going, to
Those eyes of thine from mine have drawn salt tears,
He and Lepidus are at Caesar's house.
My father hath a power; inquire of him
And lie full low, graved in the hollow ground.
Catesby, we come. Lords, will you go with us?
Is the main motive of our preparations,
way.
The shadow'd livery of the burnish'd sun,
He misses not much.
But, in my mind, that were no policy:
No, wench; it eats and sleeps and hath such senses
Enter MACDUFF
You shall be soon dispatch's with fair conditions:
Paris, you speak
Now, when thou wakest, with thine
I cannot find those runagates; that villain
Therefore do nimble-pinion'd doves draw love,
If you could find out a country where but women were
Having once this juice,
O blessed, blessed night! I am afeard.
Invites me in this churlish messenger.
When earthly things made even
I should not make so dear a show of zeal:
They shall be ready at your highness' will
Well then, I pray, your price o' the consulship?
Aside to ARIEL
Now get you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let
Their mother's bed-chamber should not be safe
To give me secret harbour, hath a purpose
The senate's courtesy? Let deeds express
The waste is no whit lesser than thy land.
The wind-shaked surge, with high and monstrous mane,
All tongues speak of him, and the bleared sights
Cries out for noble York and Somerset,
Exeunt
appears too grossly.
I tell you, he that can lay hold of her
Am I Rome's slave? What penny hath Rome borne,
answer: my next is, 'Most fair Pyramus.' Heigh-ho!
Re-enter second Servingman
With variable objects shall expel
Like friends long lost. Triple-turn'd whore!
Behold another day break in the east:
have greater reason to believe now than ever, I mean
Go, masters, get you home; be not dismay'd:
Which all men speak with him.
When Antony found Julius Caesar dead,
This ignorant present, and I feel now
Is that vile name to perish on my sword!
I do not, sir.
cooling when 'tis almost an apple: 'tis with him
Will you hear more?
what thou wert, if Fortune thy foe were not, Nature
If I be waspish, best beware my sting.
Young, valiant, wise, and, no doubt, right royal,
I do not think it good.
of his valour. He is, indeed, sir, the most skilful,
Bear his betroth'd from all the world away.
did atone my countryman and you; it had been pity
For what good turn?
Stand like the forfeits in a barber's shop,
I dreamt last night of the three weird sisters:
I know they are stuff'd with protestations
His soul and body to their lasting rest.
Both wind and tide stays for this gentleman,
Against a bird, do I with Mowbray fight.
you could make it another.
A woman I forswore; but I will prove,
Thou bring'st good news; I am called to be made free.
Or else what follows?
Nay, these are almost thoroughly persuaded;
Cannot a plain man live and think no harm,
extempore. The prince himself is about a piece of
And when Love speaks, the voice of all the gods
Why, she comes to borrow nothing of them.
If the business be of any difficulty, and this
That even cracks for woe! This chanced tonight.
of a cup into a glass, by filling the one doth empty
tish ill done; by my hand, tish ill done!
I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My
down, obey him: quickly, dispatch.
Go search like nobles, like noble subjects,
My father gave my mother.
ourselves to an unknown fear.
Visit the speechless sick and still converse
remember me, his name is Falstaff: if that man
and, I think, no other treasure to give your
it makes here: I am unfortunate in the infirmity,
in. The remembrance of her father never approaches
Are then in council; and the state of man,
Exeunt BIANCA, KATHARINA, and Widow
Farewell: I'll grow a talker for this gear.
And by the benefit of his wished light,
Hover about me with your airy wings
Your son shall have my daughter with consent.
'Tis a gentle man here--a plague o' these
cap-a-pe; and one that will either push on or pluck
Fairy king, attend, and mark:
For ancient quarrels, and quite lost their hearts.
Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
But, whiles he thought to steal the single ten,
For eminent assistants; but, spider-like,
Ay, but the clerk that never means to do it,
You do but lose your labour.
This likewise is a friend.
The canon of the law is laid on him,
you, I am of the church, and will be glad to do my
To sup with me to-morrow night. Away!
Exit PISANIO
That he consents, if Warwick yield consent;
Now sleep y-slaked hath the rout;
imagination blows him.
Yet nature's tears are reason's merriment.
Since Leonatus's false.
O Lord!
Digest it with a custom, I should blush
Built up, this city, for his chiefest seat:
Pardon, my lord; I will not show my face
O wonderful, when devils tell the truth!
And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Good Monsieur Lavache, give my Lord Lafeu this
To be disturb'd, would mad or man or beast:
him, he is gagged. I protest, I take these wise men,
As infants' empty of all thought!
And I'll be sworn I have power to shame him hence.
How that a life was but a flower
That I should questionless be fortunate!
They mock thee, Clifford: swear as thou wast wont.
The pretty dimples of his chin and cheek,
Come, Desdemona: 'tis the soldiers' life
Hear ye, captain, are you not at leisure?
With his eyes full of anger.
Nay, we will all of us be there to fetch him.
The potent poison quite o'er-crows my spirit:
Did I deserve no more than a fool's head?
Because I wish'd this world's eternity.
You do climb up it now: look, how we labour.
No more to undertake it, I will work him
Hold, then; go home, be merry, give consent
You pay him then. That's a perilous shot out of an
That was expected by the Dauphin here,
This is most likely!
Have I not strove to love, although I knew
than I have of my face when I last saw him.
Let the white death sit on thy cheek for ever;
Eros, thou yet behold'st me?
True; save means to live.
I something fear my father's wrath; but nothing--
Will hum about mine ears, and sometime voices
Hold up before him?
My sole earth's heaven and my heaven's claim.
An I cannot, another can.
canon. Keep it not; you cannot choose but loose
clap hands and a bargain: how say you, lady?
Hath raised me from my bed, nor doth the general care
My manors, rents, revenues I forego;
The very same.
Now, the gods crown thee!
dare, and when you dare. Do me right, or I will
I'll live by Nym, and Nym shall live by me;
Put up thy gold: go on,--here's gold,--go on;
I will not shame myself to give you this.
The commonwealth hath daily run to wreck;
Leonatus! a banished rascal; and he's another,
Set at liberty: the fat ribs of peace
kissing of her batlet and the cow's dugs that her
Where are thy children? wherein dost thou, joy?
The very last time we shall speak together:
Nor stir at nothing till the axe of death
I come, to learn how you have dealt for him;
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous:
In favour was my brother, and he went
rendezvous of it.
mustard was naught: now I'll stand to it, the
Enter JULIET
Left by the fatal and neglected English
The amity that wisdom knits not, folly may easily
And Hector laughed.
Or Cassio him, or each do kill the other,
That she whom all men praised and whom myself,
No, my most wronged sister; Cleopatra
SCENE VI. The English camp in Picardy.
And force them with a constancy, the cardinal
have the booty, if you and I do not rob them, cut
True, my good boy. Come, bring us to this hovel.
Would it apply well to the vehemency of your
Not that I know.
In his abominations, turns you off;
While these do labour for their own preferment,
All corners of the world: kings, queens and states,
[Aside]  Or rather, of stealing a cade of herrings.
The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks,
To be in anger is impiety;
by your hearing: all the peace you make in their
Why?
Must we pursue, and I have found the path.
By all the vows that ever men have broke,
Thus from my lips, by yours, my sin is purged.
if I said his beard was not cut well, he was in the
Yea, scandalous to the world.
Shoughs, water-rugs and demi-wolves, are clept
That were hard to compass;
'It came to pass, as most like it was,'--
A villain that is hither come in spite,
I tell you, denied, my lord.
Issuing life-blood. But is it true, Salerio?
Gaultier or Walter, which it is, I care not:
Which we call 'mollis aer;' and 'mollis aer'
Where is best place to make our battery next.
What grief hath set the jaundice on your cheeks?
Thou shalt be free
'Good Gloucester' and 'good devil' were alike,
Than nobleness and riches: careless heirs
With all my heart, good youth.
The white sheet bleaching on the hedge,
And lulls him whilst she playeth on her back,
Russian bear and have their heads crushed like
His skill in the construction.
it was mere foolery; I did not mark it. I saw Mark
but in honest, civil, godly company, for this trick:
The common muck of the world: he covets less
What a brazen-faced varlet art thou, to deny thou
crammed, as he thinks, with excellencies, that it is
Who deserves greatness
He hath been out nine years, and away he shall
found; or, if it were, it would neither serve for
Like a rich jewel in an Ethiope's ear;
Filling the air with swords advanced and darts,
Most excellent accomplished lady, the heavens rain
Go, and be ruled: although I know thou hadst rather
Say, the brave Antony.
To bring you in again.
The trumpets sound. They embrace, and exeunt
To buy his will, it would not seem too dear,
What ransom must I pay before I pass?
Under the covering of a careful night,
Is come into the field.
The hostess-ship o' the day.
By his authority I will proclaim it,
Pompey, return it again: you shall have time to
Give me my steeled coat. I'll fight for France.
Convinced or supplied them, cannot choose
Which buys admittance; oft it doth; yea, and makes
And the most noble mother of the world
If I would sell my horse, and buy twenty more
He hath a daily beauty in his life
And not without desert so well reputed.
Very like; one of them
Beteem them from the tempest of my eyes.
You shall be more beloving than beloved.
Beneath the fall I have.
The king and his companions: warily
I have possess'd your grace of what I purpose;
My speech should fall into such vile success
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING of France, with letters, and divers Attendants
This murder had not come into my mind:
Enter PROTEUS
But with all brief and plain conveniency
That issue out of dust. Happy thou art not;
Exeunt
Let me have war, say I; it exceeds peace as far as
do you service and you think we are ruffians, you'll
I do confess it, and repent it, father.
Perhaps, him and her, sir: what have you to do?
This pert Biron was out of countenance quite.
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
Ay, do you fear it?
That hath to this maturity blown up
The issue of the exploit. Go, Hercules!
Between the king and you; and to deliver,
To weep; whose every passion fully strives
But let my favours hide thy mangled face;
Put them not to't:
me?--that most are affected to these.
But wherefore do you hold me here so long?
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
[Aside]  Well, I perceive
The clerk will ne'er wear hair on's face that had it.
Hath their keel cut: but fortune's mood
Within these forty hours Surrey durst better
You have a Trojan prisoner, call'd Antenor,
Why, how now, Kate! I hope thou art not mad:
Your vows to her and me, put in two scales,
Ha! what, so rank? Ah ha!
There is Aufidius; list, what work he makes
Thy mother took into her blameful bed
Mine honour'd lady!
How chances it they travel? their residence, both
I will not hear her speak; away with her!
Against her maiden truth. Call me a fool;
And so far am I glad it so did sort
Herself's a bawd: let not the virgin's cheek
The native mightiness and fate of him.
heels.' Well, the most courageous fiend bids me
Then, O you blessed ministers above,
And such a flood of greatness fell on you,
From chance to chance: but nor the time nor place
sucking dove; I will roar you an 'twere any
We shall thrive now. Seest thou, my good fellow?
not ever sad then; for I have heard my daughter say,
He's sentenced; no more hearing.
I cannot come to Cressid but by Pandar;
Thou wilt be like a lover presently
We have frighted with our trumpets; so, 'tis clear,
Spurn at his edict and fulfil a man's?
Re-enter MALVOLIO
I will some other be, some Florentine,
nine that I know.
Thou hadst, and more, Miranda. But how is it
To gratulate the gentle princes there.
To Owen Glendower: and, dear coz, to you
Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart:
Being not deficient, blind, or lame of sense,
Would they were multitudes, and on my head
Such sanctity hath heaven given his hand--
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
Show me briefly how.
That bites the first-born infants of the spring.
If thou do this, I'll show thee wondrous things,
Is not, sir, my doublet as fresh as the first day I
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
Whilst Bolingbroke, through our security,
Foul disproportion thoughts unnatural.
Mad and fantastic execution,
O my good lord,
It is not lost; but what an if it were?
Were not the proof so nigh. Please you, great sir,
We never valued this poor seat of England;
To gratify your honourable youth,
difference betwixt our Bohemia and your Sicilia.
Of thee thyself and all thy complices,
Die, frantic wretch, for this accursed deed!
Exit
The duke shall grant me justice. I do wonder,
Be more myself.
To have my praise for this, perform a part
Come hither, count; do you know these women?
cutting the web. After this, the vengeance on the
Than most have of his age.
It came to us, I do in justice charge thee,
Hark! Peace!
Exeunt
lord: whom I serve above is my master.
Eating the bitter bread of banishment;
All villains that do stand by thee are pure.
and of very liberal conceit.
thee. Farewell.
With thoughts so qualified as your charities
I'll prove a tyrant to him. As for you,
Exeunt
Out on thee! Seeming! I will write against it:
Yes, indeed shall you, and taste gentlemen of all
Enter YOUNG SIWARD
Marking the embarked traders on the flood,
Of the new'st and finest, finest wear-a?
Must it be so? it must not be. My lords,
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
Accommodated by the place, more charming
Music within. Enter a Servingman
Of a whole herd of lions.
Upon this land a thousand thousand blessings,
When he has run his course and sleeps in blessings,
A most courteous exposition.
certain that when he makes water his urine is
Hear the ambassadors.
To give the assay of arms against your majesty.
To show how much thou art degenerate.
An honest one, I warrant; who deserved
the web and the pin, squints the eye, and makes the
With being nothing. Music do I hear?
Long continuance, and increasing,
With other vile and ignominious terms:
This man may help me to his majesty's ear,
By saying that a costard was broken in a shin.
To be deposed and shortly murdered.
I prithee, peace, good queen,
What shall I do to win my lord again?
Then will I raise aloft the milk-white rose,
Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him.
worse at ease he is; and that he that wants money,
Now she holds me not;
Wrecked the same instant of their master's death and
The very minute bids thee ope thine ear;
I think affliction may subdue the cheek,
I pray you, what is't o'clock?
Than Julius Caesar or bright--
Say we intend to try his grace to-day.
To go with us into the abbey here
Exeunt
Believe this crack to be in my dread mistress,
Which holds him much to have.
Of regular justice in your city's bounds,
Keeps thicket. Please it our great general
When in a wood of Crete they bay'd the bear
Her to her chamber, that 'tis impossible.
Upon a labouring day without the sign
it!
Good day to both your graces.
and I a sheep?
Not only good and wise, but most religious:
Why shall we fight, if you pretend no title?
To meet displeasure farther from the doors,
To end the one of us; and would to God
Brought her to Mytilene; 'gainst whose shore
This lady makes him to me.
He durst as well have met the devil alone
Some fair excuse.
Alack, and what shall good old York there see
In war was never lion raged more fierce,
He lies before me: dost thou understand me?
Lord Saturnine; whose virtues will, I hope,
Sconce call you it? so you would leave battering, I
I talk of you:
In to our tent; the air is raw and cold.
Our abbeys and our priories shall pay
Change you colour?
So are they all, all honourable men--
Exit
My sovereign, I confess your royal graces,
Please your lordship, here is the wine.
May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take
Your lord; myself and other noble friends,
The trumpets show the emperor is at hand.
I may be heard, I would crave a word or two;
That what they do delay, they not deny.
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
Give me, give me! O, tell not me of fear!
his virtue, which he hath not, he might at some
I hate not you for her proud arrogance.
Cain's jaw-bone, that did the first murder! It
I thank thee: thou shalt not lose by it.
Re-enter Servants with supper
As to prenominate in nice conjecture
Thy medicine on my lips; and let this kiss
God's arm strike with us! 'tis a fearful odds.
Farewell, Lavinia, my noble sister;
Follow her close; give her good watch,
His insolence can brook to be commanded
cracking the stones of the foresaid prunes,--
are, you must have the patience to hear it.
That girdlest in those wolves, dive in the earth,
No public benefit which you receive
Two other sons, who in the wars o' the time
Look'd he or red or pale, or sad or merrily?
Your daughter's chastity--there it begins.
Ergo I come with this apology.
And thy unkindness be like crooked age,
I think my wife be honest and think she is not;
Apollo. You that way: we this way.
Unfold the evil which is here wrapt up
Whispers the o'er-fraught heart and bids it break.
With all my heart, gentlemen both; and how fare you?
She that's a maid now, and laughs at my departure,
Hath much deform'd us, fashioning our humours
understand him, unless some one among us whom we
Had that was well worth watching--it was hang'd
[Aside]                  She speaks, and 'tis
How many be there of them?
To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may
Start not; her actions shall be holy as
And by an eminent body that enforced
Then enterprise is sick! How could communities,
Nor ever had one penny bribe from France.
Knocking within
Would you not have me honest?
Exceeding wise, fair-spoken, and persuading:
And as the air blows it to me again,
So doth the woodbine the sweet honeysuckle
And manacle the bear-ward in their chains,
Change shapes with Proteus for advantages,
Never, till Caesar's three and thirty wounds
And not be seen to wink of all the day--
stairs into the lobby.
And 'gentle Harry Percy,' and 'kind cousin;'
No, but the barber's man hath been seen with him,
mean by that same handkerchief you gave me even now?
What may be wrought out of their discontent,
SCENE III. The palace.
Where Claudio stoop'd to death, and with like haste.
Hark Tamora, the empress of my soul,
My gracious lord, no tribune hears you speak.
To guard a thing not ours nor worth to us,
She loved me for the dangers I had pass'd,
married to-morrow, you shall, and to Rosalind, if you will.
But, in mine emulous honour, let him die,
Bring forth the parties of suspicion.
But, to prevent the tyrant's violence,--
Your lord, I mean--laughs from's free lungs, cries 'O,
venture so.
Into this city's bosom.
Our purpose may hold there.
He wish'd to-day our enterprise might thrive.
Enter GLOUCESTER
No less in space, validity, and pleasure,
Than thou went'st forth in lamentation.
Inquire at London, 'mongst the taverns there,
His bark is stoutly timber'd, his pilot
With thy keen sword impress as make me bleed:
Do not, dear father.
What, by a horseman, or a footman?
At hours unmeet, or that I yesternight
Or I shall say you are all in all in spleen,
On some great sudden hest. O, what portents are these?
Should he sit here? This act persuades me
If he appeal the duke on ancient malice;
Fear no more the heat o' the sun,
Madam, it will not lie where it concerns
Have I made shake and by the spurs pluck'd up
You can fool no more money out of me at this throw:
I should have scratch'd out your unseeing eyes
On that advantage, bought with such a shame,
Plead you to me, fair dame? I know you not:
When Caesar and your brother were at blows,
As I did stand my watch upon the hill,
learnedly handle, though they come to him by the
Fellows, stand fast; I see a passenger.
Sundays. Look Don Pedro is returned to seek you.
These words are razors to my wounded heart.
See how the giddy multitude do point,
How well my comfort is revived by this!
God pardon sin! wast thou with Rosaline?
It was a mad fantastical trick of him to steal from
love; with your hat penthouse-like o'er the shop of
Sweet health and fair desires consort your grace!
And fill me from the crown to the toe top-full
Trumpets cease
Bearing a Tartar's painted bow of lath,
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
You only speak from your distracted soul;
O, calm thee, gentle lord; although I know
As prouder livers do.
Enter Vintner
What good could they pretend?
Tut, I have done a thousand dreadful things
sigh gratis; the humourous man shall end his part
Master young gentleman, I pray you, which is the way
Wall, that vile Wall which did these lovers sunder;
And choke the herbs for want of husbandry.
And thou the velvet: thou art good velvet; thou'rt
I will satisfy you, if ever I satisfied man, and you
And I can teach thee, coz, to shame the devil
In Whitsun pastorals: sure this robe of mine
The shrine of Venus, or straight-pight Minerva.
When severally we hear them rendered.
With secrets.
Come, thou new ruin of old Clifford's house:
And sometime comes she with a tithe-pig's tail
All unseen, can passage find;
Come hither, Gardiner.
We had a kind of light what would ensue:
Speak 'pardon' as 'tis current in our land;
through the very middest of you? and heavens and
Bring down the devil; for he must not die
But that your royal pleasure must be done,
I have the toothache.
She should this Angelo have married; was affianced
You shall have An fool's-head of your own. No, I
I will not.
Making the bold wag by their praises bolder:
To hear the process; and warrant she'll tax him home:
Has he dined, canst thou tell? for I would not
not worth the feeding.
Come, my gracious lord,
And day by day I'll do this heavy task,
Who else would soar above the view of men
That hath dismissed us from our stewardship;
Thus with my hat, and sigh and say 'amen,'
Or hitherwards intended speedily,
Amen, with all my heart!
The villain Jew with outcries raised the duke,
Good Hubert, Hubert, Hubert, throw thine eye
O brother, speak with possibilities,
Ay, Hamlet.
Marry, before your ladyship, I grant,
That ever I was born to set it right!
I care not for thy sword; I'll make thee known,
In all that I can do.
And, good lieutenant, I think you think I love you.
Peace! what noise?
I'll go and chat with Paris: hie, make haste,
Which I have open'd to his grace at large,
Into a general prophecy; That this tempest,
To quarrel with your great opposeless wills,
Would I were dead, so you did live again!
Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak you:
Doth root upon, while that the coulter rusts
My legs can keep no measure in delight,
So mighty and so many my defects,
Within  'A way there, a way for Caesar!'
sad; and to travel for it too!
He said he would not ransom Mortimer;
drop in his porridge.
Tie leaden pounds to's heels. Proceed by process;
Dead.
And though man's face be fearful to their eyes,
So foul and fair a day I have not seen.
'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art but a scurvy fellow.'
Be now produced and heard.
Thou liest, thou shag-hair'd villain!
Of hoarding abbots; imprisoned angels
Grappling with him
But, to the matter that we have in hand:
Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye,
This night in banqueting must all be spent.
Spoke of in Scotland as this term of fear.
Make soft thy trenchant sword; for those milk-paps,
And not be Richard that hath done all this.
Will you subscribe his thought, and say he is?
Now York and Lancaster are reconciled.
What would your ladyship?
disposition to the charge of a star! My
Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man.
As this I would: ay, though thou didst produce
She's bitter to her country: hear me, Paris:
Exit
What is the matter, ho? who is't that cried?
That without covering, save yon field of stars,
That would I know too: I warrant, one that knows him not.
Courageous Richmond, well hast thou acquit thee.
Excite the mortified man.
Why, what a rascal art thou then, to praise him so
Of our flesh; few are angels: out of which frailty
To prate and talk for life and honour 'fore
And in devotion spend my latter days,
Ay, madam; in the heaviness of his sleep
I am son to the queen.
Now let him speak: 'tis charity to show.
Proud of employment, willingly I go.
Unlike than this thou tell'st. I lost my children:
The measure then of one is easily told.
We are no tell-tales, madam; fear you not.
Hopeless and helpless doth AEgeon wend,
Where such as thou mayst find him.
Come here about me, you my Myrmidons;
Convey'd himself as heir to the Lady Lingare,
Enter TROILUS and CRESSIDA
Ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns
When he is turn'd to poison?
Captive to thee and to thy Roman yoke,
Come, go: I will fall prostrate at his feet
Your mightiness on both parts best can witness.
And affecting one sole throne,
Than to be thirsty after tottering honour,
tribunal plebs, to take up a matter of brawl
As bring me to the sight of Isabella,
My credit now stands on such slippery ground,
To ruminate strange plots of dire revenge;
The thin and wholesome blood: so did it mine;
That thinks men honest that but seem to be so,
A narrow lane, an old man, and two boys.
Enter QUEEN GERTRUDE
Time is a very bankrupt, and owes more than he's
Now, good digestion wait on appetite,
To think what follows.
Upon mine honour, he is prisoner.
of heavy tedious penury; these Time ambles withal.
To see perform'd the dreaded act which thou
My mistress here lies murder'd in her bed,--
there's something extraordinary in thee. Come, I
He must be told on't, and he shall: the office
And linger not our sure destructions on!
Thank me for this more than for all the favours
The ministers for the purpose hurried thence
All perishen of man, of pelf,
Exit BIRON
If non to bless us and the land withal,
The proffer'd means of succor and redress.
Your low-laid son our godhead will uplift:
The last fit of my greatness,--good your graces,
And plant your joys in living Edward's throne.
I take her hand.
Why, then you are in love.
The moody frontier of a servant brow.
Stay, madam; I must speak a word with you.
The devil a puritan that he is, or any thing
Even so; an't please your worship, Brakenbury,
For forty ducats is too much to lose.
The breath of worldly men cannot depose
She holds her virtue still and I my mind.
And here it rests, that you'll procure the vicar
The barren, touched in this holy chase,
To hear this of him; and could wish he were
As thine was to thy husband; and this boy
Master, I have gone through for this piece, you see:
And come now to create you Duke of York.
I know them both.
ACT III
And do not know ourselves, when we hold rumour
To buy a present for the emperor
But yet you look not well upon him; for whosoever you
To show myself a glass.
You that will follow me to this attempt,
Worse than the scaring bell, when the brown wench
crammed with grain; make edicts for usury, to
What is it, my good friends?
Well, let her be admitted.
nay-word, that you may know one another's mind, and
Thanks, gentle Somerset; sweet Oxford, thanks.
Mark you but that!
Thou art an exile, and thou must not stay:
sojourner we have; you'll lose nothing by custom.
With reverend fathers and well-learned bishops.
Cambio is changed into Lucentio.
DON
Farewell, farewell:
But see his exequies fulfill'd in Rouen:
Exeunt
Stand close, and list him.
Now comes the wanton blood up in your cheeks,
Indeed, a' must shoot nearer, or he'll ne'er hit the clout.
Exeunt SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and MARIA
Thy hope ends here!
Who is't that can inform me?
Than this; that nothing do I see in you,
me like men:
The noble Duke of Clarence to your hands:
Look round about the wicked streets of Rome;
To cure this deadly grief.
Climb o'er the house to unlock the little gate.
And, Launcelot, soon at supper shalt thou see
Now hear me speak with a prophetic spirit;
come I to my sister; mark the moan she makes. Now
Come, Montague; for thou art early up,
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Our empress' shame, and stately Rome's disgrace!
Mark, silent king, the moral of this sport,
An absolute trust.
Should I now meet my father,
daughter. Lord, we know what we are, but know not
Would you'ld pardon me;
To buy and sell with groats, to show bare heads
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend;
Exit LYSANDER, as following the voice
Will yield to see his daughter.
Pray, be not sick,
casement of my closet.
I will not keep my word.
His practises to light?
Cannot take two from twenty, for his heart,
Were as seven vials of his sacred blood,
sleeve of Troy there in his helm: I would fain see
When what is done is like an hypocrite,
of brown thread: I said a gown.
I have, and I will hold, the quondam Quickly
You do prepare to ride unto Saint Alban's,
the duke, that my charity be not of him perceived:
They have made him drink alms-drink.
together and thrown over the shoulders like an
What news?
Lord marshal, command our officers at arms
I hope I have your good will, father Page.
To lay his gay comparisons apart,
'Hang-hog' is Latin for bacon, I warrant you.
sent your worship a morning's draught of sack.
I bar it in the interest of my wife:
More fiery by night's blackness; hereditary,
Thy master in bleeding: say his name, good friend.
And she a mourning widow of her nobles,
And dallies with the innocence of love,
Trembling even at the name of Mortimer.
ACT I
Thou shalt never get such a secret from me but by a parable.
Pompey.
She says enough; yet she's a simple bawd
Unless I spake, or look'd, or touch'd, or carved to thee.
My dagger, little cousin? with all my heart.
Rebellion's head, rise never till the wood
I'll be at charges for a looking-glass,
Thou hast a grim appearance, and thy face
Even to my person, than I thought he would
To serve, and to deserve my mistress' grace;
Callest thou my love 'hobby-horse'?
Enter TROILUS
is that he will steal himself into a man's favour and
Upon some other pawn for fealty.
both the office of God and the devil? One brings
More than to see this ring. Take him away.
Engaged my friend to his mere enemy,
Guardian!--why, Greek!
I am thy sovereign.
Being done, there is no pause.
Our great self and our credit, to esteem
In general riot; melted down thy youth
Coward of France! how much he wrongs his fame,
at this line: let me see, let me see--
Why, look you, how you storm!
Stand not amazed: the prince will doom thee death,
Of his own just remove: the people muddied,
How, my love!
This, and Saint George to boot! What think'st thou, Norfolk?
Yes; keep you warm.
But by his mother was perforce withheld.
blush and weep and thou must look pale and wonder.
They talk apart
fool's bolt is soon shot.'
With heigh! with heigh! the thrush and the jay,
Well too.
Ay.
For which the people stir: if you will pass
sailing by the star.
Enter Fool
To do this when I bade thee? Do it at once;
It stops me here; it is too much of joy:
Steps in to Cassio, and entreats his pause:
And like as rigor of tempestuous gusts
Sir, he dined with her there, at the Porpentine.
When we have soil'd them, nor the remainder viands
As thou dost, Antony; he hears no music;
The most arch of piteous massacre
As I kiss thee. Nay, do not snatch it from me;
When it lies starkly in the traveller's bones:
From the spongy south to this part of the west,
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Medice, teipsum--
rather trust a Fleming with my butter, Parson Hugh
Away! for thou hast stay'd us here too long.
There's nothing in this world can make me joy:
a wherefore.
And, his corruption being ta'en from us,
Sweet peace conduct his sweet soul to the bosom
darkness and given your drunken cousin rule over
Now by my maiden honour, yet as pure
In my oration, how the people take
parishioners; for their sons are well tutored by
Knock,
Whose voices I desire aloud with mine:
Knew you not Pompey? Many a time and oft
We'll dress him up in voices: if he fail,
Nothing so strong and fortunate as I.
He doth me wrong to feed me with delays.
This is a strange repose, to be asleep
Than camels in the war, who have their provand
When night-dogs run, all sorts of deer are chased.
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! I have heard
Be not offended, dear Cesario.
This same Cranmer's
Our enemies' pride: five times he hath return'd
I know your master's pleasure and he mine:
Pick'd from the chaff and ruin of the times
Lives not alone immured in the brain;
Thou and my bosom henceforth shall be twain.
Go to him, madam, speak to him:
Well mayst thou woo, and happy be thy speed!
therefore tremble and depart.
And where tis so, the offender's scourge is weigh'd,
If I do die before thee prithee, shroud me
Exeunt
May give you thankful sacrifice.
Let two more summers wither in their pride,
It was his queen, his queen!
Allaying both their fury and my passion
As o'er a brook, to see fair Portia.
The thing I am, by seeming otherwise.
The remedy then born--discover to me
Notice of my affair. I humbly thank you:
She would to each one sip. You are retired,
Invades us to the skin: so 'tis to thee;
And we, in pity of the gentle king,
No, truly, Ursula, she is too disdainful;
If you do find them deck'd with ceremonies.
Your hearts of sorrow and your eyes of tears:
brother,	EDGAR.'
I will, my lord.
A woeful pageant have we here beheld.
Give me my veil: come, throw it o'er my face.
of thunder and lightning heard.
In that he spake too far.
other her defences, which now are too too strongly
That with some mixtures powerful o'er the blood,
But Montague is bound as well as I,
with Camillo to take away the life of our sovereign
And, for that purpose, I'll anoint my sword.
I do bequeath my faithful services
Give us some seats. Come, cousin Angelo;
Now, Master Shallow, you'll complain of me to the king?
And the mountain tops that freeze,
call me knave. Begin, fool: it begins 'Hold thy peace.'
Drop tears as fast as the Arabian trees
These letters at fit time deliver me
Nay, good my lord, be not angry.
liberty of feasting from this present hour of five
Of such a thing as thou, to fear, not to delight.
Goes foremost in report through Italy.
The king shall have my service: but my prayers
Who is Silvia? what is she,
But God be thanked for prevention;
Enter DIOMEDES and a Servant
Why, old soldier,
Of better deeds to-morrow. Rest you happy!
the time his form and pressure. Now this overdone,
Soft! What are you
Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.
To her whose worth makes other worthies nothing;
Your brother's death, I know, sits at your heart;
Enter Officers
I do profess to be no less than I seem; to serve
'pointed day.
I wander from the jewels that I love.
Are now on sale, and at our sheepcote now,
You are, and do not know't:
What's that?
Whose humble means match not his haughty mind:
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them:
For emulation hath a thousand sons
fool, sweetest lady! By the world, I would not care
supposed Earl of Gloucester, that he is a manifold
As 'longeth to a lover's blessed case!
Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds,
In peril to incur your former malady,
Drive you to break your necks or hang yourselves!
Strives in his little world of man to out-scorn
Were dolphin-like; they show'd his back above
My head with more ill news, for it is full.
When Gloucester says the word, King Henry goes;
Her C's, her U's and her T's: why that?
Well, then, here's the point:
That it shall hold companionship in peace
And to such men of gravity and learning,
To praise him more than ever man did merit:
And shall have your will, because our king:
Of whence I am, nor that I am more better
drunk; he sweats not to overthrow your Almain; he
SCENE II. The same. Pandarus' orchard.
Enter VERNON and BASSET
That there he dropp'd it for a special purpose
As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou livest!
Even so: Hector was stirring early.
I am glad to be constrain'd to utter that
With only suffering stain by him; for him
Dicky your boy, that with his grumbling voice
own defence?
But, soft! what day is this?
Sent down among 'em, which hath flaw'd the heart
A sin of perjury; she not denies it:
Shall quips and sentences and these paper bullets of
Money's a medler.
Chaos is come again.
His radiant root. Away! and, to be blest,
delivered upon the mellowing of occasion. But the
This she delivered in the most bitter touch of
ever before. Give me thy hand, Roderigo: thou hast
Out of a casement.
'Tis not the roundure of your old-faced walls
But in all places else your master Lucentio.
To see me thus transformed to a boy.
Or I shall so be-mete thee with thy yard
To send down Justice for to wreak our wrongs.
teeth and the lips: but this I can let you
He's in his fit now and does not talk after the
shall find, within these two days he will be here.
To call him villain? and then to glance from him
That, when he waked, of force she must be eyed.
Were they not forced with those that should be ours,
Of what I was i' the morning: but next day
Give him deserved vexation. Let a guard
Well, madam.
And stop their mouths, if they begin to cry.
To make thee seek it.'
Stay, slave; I must employ thee:
But set them down horrible traitors: spare not the babe,
and whatever praises itself but in the deed, devours
Why, for taking one's part that's out of favour:
Exit PANDARUS
Marry, amen!
Mine action and thine own? our horses' labour?
To mark me for his friend; yet, I protest,
Methought their souls, whose bodies Richard murder'd,
signior: fare you well.
Here, here's gold for thee.
E'en so; a great deal of your wit, too, lies in your
heed of Troilus, I can tell them that too.
Tell thee, Macduff was from his mother's womb
Let me my service tender on your lips.
Lest it be said 'Speak, sirrah, when you should;
No.
Long live our sovereign Richard, England's king!
If her liquor be good, she shall: if she will not, I
With much ado at length have gotten leave
Nor will you tender less.
It grieves many:
silks betray thy poor heart to woman: keep thy foot
And mountainous error be too highly heapt
I'll fee thee to stand up.
No court, no father; nor no more ado
Withal, what I have been, and what I am.
Your folly.
at Shrewsbury.
Her mother hath many times told me so.
The time of life: arming myself with patience
By him not ruin'd? then is he the ground
Come, bring me where they are.
Let him go up into the public chair;
Exit
What says my sweet queen? My cousin will fall out
So differing in their acts. Yet if I knew
Take hold on me, for my particular grief
While he was yet in Rome,
Even in theirs and in the commons' ears,
To give our hearts united ceremony.
Made it no conscience to destroy a prince.
Exeunt, severally, GLOUCESTER and BISHOP OF WINCHESTER with their Serving-men
You called me yesterday mountain-squire; but I will
justice rails upon yond simple thief. Hark, in
Your loss is as yourself, great; and you bear it
That youth and observation copied there;
To let me be partaker.
Ay, those attires are best: but, gentle nurse,
Thou wear a lion's hide! doff it for shame,
Those that will follow Cassius, go with him;
I will come after you with what good speed
And seeing ignorance is the curse of God,
I saw the treasons planted.
Thy ambition,
turtles from jays.
nor this is not my nose neither. Nothing that is so is so.
A fit or two o' the face; but they are shrewd ones;
For if the Jew do cut but deep enough,
flame-coloured stock. Shall we set about some revels?
To greet the warriors. Sweet Helen, I must woo you
I'll to dinner.
Well, to our work alive. What do you think
Say, if I do, the laws are mine, not thine:
Madman, thou errest: I say, there is no darkness
And nothing more, may fitly like your grace,
Sent from my brother Worcester, whencesoever.
Not I, believe me: thus I'll visit her.
I will unbolt to you.
So stands this squire
But that my master rather play'd than fought
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
I am your wife in all obedience.
Why is my lord enraged against his love?
respect and acquaintance, but I find none.
Thy noble brother Titus and his sons,
Go, go, my servant, take thou Troilus' horse;
By message craved, so is Lord Talbot come.
What wicked and dissembling glass of mine
Marcus, we are but shrubs, no cedars we
Northumberland, then present, wept to see it.
What is this? sport?
Doth couch his limbs, there golden sleep doth reign:
But that a joy past joy calls out on me,
Mend when thou canst; be better at thy leisure:
Exit
Your loves, as mine to you: farewell.
Madam, he's married to Octavia.
Enter CLIFFORD and YOUNG CLIFFORD
Withdraw, my lord; I'll help you to a horse.
But resolution, and the briefest end.
Anon, anon.
O hateful hands, to tear such loving words!
Win us with honest trifles, to betray's
But in the loss of question,--that you, his sister,
Neither have I money nor commodity
Mark, I say, instantly; and carry it so
That starts i' the way before thee.
With what persuasion did he tempt thy love?
But, as it seems, did violence on herself.
No messenger, but thine; and all alone
Here in the court, of all he dies possess'd,
They say, in him they fear your highness' death;
More widows in them of this business' making
And spend her strength with over-matching waves.
fall into Charybdis, your mother: well, you are
Excepting none but good Duke Humphrey:
Come, come, you're mocking: we will have no telling.
Sirrah, walk off.
Why have my sisters husbands, if they say
In such a rustling time? Who leads his power?
When the alarum were struck than idly sit
And so am I revenged. That would be scann'd:
To move the heavens to smile upon my state,
Your lordship is the most patient man in loss, the
Help, grandsire, help! my aunt Lavinia
According to our order.
Baptista is a noble gentleman,
So mighty are his vowed enemies.
That to the observer doth thy history
there, his brother, the bull,--the primitive statue,
for my friends.
that, making God so free an offer, He let him
in honour come off again.
I tell you, he does sit in gold, his eye
Thy name affrights me, in whose sound is death.
Mine enemy has more power.
Now, signior, what news?
So aged as this seems.
mine honest neighbours shouted.
Alack, why thus?
Had still kept loyal to possession
I pray thee, give it me.
Now, Kate, I am a husband for your turn;
To punish my mistreadings. Tell me else,
The people are abused; set on. This paltering
'Who chooseth me shall have as much as he deserves.'
I humbly thank your highness.
Enter the DUCHESS in a white sheet, and a taper  burning in her hand; with STANLEY, the Sheriff, and Officers
With scraps o' the court, it is no contract, none:
To follow with allegiance a fall'n lord
Because they speak no English, thus they pray'd
This is, sure, Fidele.
Lend favourable ears to our request;
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY; JAQUES behind
What! have I twice said well? when was't before?
I understand you not: my griefs are double.
they would have drowned a blind bitch's puppies,
A king of beasts, indeed; if aught but beasts,
I know you all, and will awhile uphold
As record of fair act; nay, many times,
Enfeoff'd himself to popularity;
Despite of death that lives upon my grave,
Not cowardly put off my helmet to
I give thee warrant of thy place: assure thee,
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plastering art,
At all a friend to truth.
Fine, i'faith!
of this malapert blood from you.
Enter the Guard, rushing in
Thrice hath this Hotspur, Mars in swathling clothes,
That which my daughter came to look upon,
Enter Keeper, with a dish
Drew all such humours from him.
Ay, sir.
Come not home in twice six moons,
for I was come to the whole depth of my tale; and
In this sad wreck? How came it? Who is it?
Not to deny me, and to pardon me.
Turns to the sourest and most deadly hate:
And their true sovereign, whom they must obey?
I cannot name; 'tis nameless woe, I wot.
But do not like to stage me to their eyes:
fain to hang you.
these injuries the king now bears will be revenged
Good sir, say whether you'll answer me or no:
Lend me thy cloak, Sir Thomas. Brothers both,
Of murder's arms: this is the bloodiest shame,
As Lewis himself: so, nobles, shall you all,
'Tis for the followers fortune widens them,
[Aside]  A material fool!
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER
Leave off discourse of disability:
She dreamt to-night she saw my statua,
And bitter shame hath spoil'd the sweet world's taste
I myself have all the other,
I come to tell you things sith then befall'n.
Puts down the skull
Alter thy course for Tyre. When canst thou reach it?
Exit HELENA
Madam, withdraw: the prince, the count, Signior
being bid to ask what he would of the king, desired
Thou art inclined to sleep; 'tis a good dulness,
Without revolt: this is, and is not, Cressid.
Tear my bright hair and scratch my praised cheeks,
If there be any in this assembly, any dear friend of
Enter the Mayor and two Aldermen, below
melancholy, if you will favour the man; but, by my
And how thou pleasest, God, dispose the day!
cross-gartered: I say, remember. Go to, thou art
Peter, didst ever see the like?
Lest this great sea of joys rushing upon me
I'll not have it so.
Pray that their burthens may not fall this day,
For pale they look with fear, as witnessing
A moiety of that mass of moan to come.
As sun to day, as turtle to her mate,
What relish is in this? how runs the stream?
tempered as mine is to thee.
that by the way; I praise heaven for it.
Thy father's father wore it,
A dozen years; within which space she died
Whom I made lord of me and all I had,
He dares not calm his contumelious spirit
Be it so! Amen!
If you will jest with me, know my aspect,
With distinct breath and consign'd kisses to them,
ladyship were best to have some guard about you, if
I stood upon the hatches in the storm,
Than you can put us to't.
As matter whole you have not to make it with,
that you may most uprighteously do a poor wronged
The duke's in us; and we will hear you speak:
SONG.
That with such vehemency he should pursue
banish Bardolph, banish Poins: but for sweet Jack
What, have you lost your wits?
O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
said, the fittest time to corrupt a man's wife is
I pray you, bear with me; I cannot go no further.
But empty lodgings and unfurnish'd walls,
You should not use me so.
peremptorily I speak it, there is virtue in that
And she shall be sole victress, Caesar's Caesar.
First, rehearse your song by rote
Quick, quick; fear nothing; I'll be at thy elbow:
Implored your highness' pardon and set forth
Come not between the dragon and his wrath.
To-morrow I intend to hunt again.
Such different issues. You spoke not with her since?
Make me believe that thou art only mark'd
What you in wisdom still vouchsafe to say.
These well express in thee thy latter spirits:
I thank thee, fellow; thou servest me, and I'll
Well, sir.
And we will all subscribe to thy advice:
My lord, I will be ruled;
truer than those that are so washed. How much
So the proportions of defence are fill'd;
I think she means that there was more than one
Following darkness like a dream,
That cursed Chiron and Demetrius
To bring him to the haven; left these notes
A hundred times and oftener, in my sleep,
Or with light skirmishes enfeebled.
And so was I: I'll bear you company.
My lord?
Were't not that, by great preservation,
Lest Hector or my father should perceive me,
How will my wife for slaughter of my son
Madam, by chance but not by truth; what though?
wicked varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art
But to be free and bounteous to her mind:
As if we were God's spies: and we'll wear out,
Or he shall pay for this.
Up to the eastern tower,
I will make my very house reel tonight: a letter for
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
Henry doth claim the crown from John of Gaunt,
'Zounds, ye fat paunch, an ye call me coward, by the
Or that we quit this place; let's draw our weapons.
Be satisfied, dear God, with our true blood,
To tell thee whence thou camest, of whom derived,
But must be, will his free hours languish for
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
If 'gainst yourself you be incensed, we'll put you,
Report should render him hourly to your ear
and she's a great lubberly boy. If it had not been
When thou wert king; who, travelling towards York,
Walk with Leonine; the air is quick there,
Procure your sureties for your days of answer.
and there was he borne, under a hedge, for his
I claimed the crown, had issue, Philippe, a daughter,
Seals of love, but sealed in vain, sealed in vain.
Now is my day's work done; I'll take good breath:
But more of that anon. Take him aside.
For thus his royalty doth speak in me.
No, God forbid that I should wish them sever'd
SCENE VI. London. The Tower.
are many, or else your actions would grow wondrous
My honest grief unto him; and, as my lord,
Since you will buckle fortune on my back,
Why, he comes in like a perjure, wearing papers.
Warwick may live to be the best of all.
Yet read the gamut of Hortensio.
And all together, with the Duke of Suffolk,
As green as Ajax' and your brain so temper'd,
As great in admiration as herself;
Wrinkles Apollo's, and makes stale the morning.
And pay you for your voices. 'Tis no matter;
See you, my princes, and my noble peers,
With all the fierce endeavor of your wit
Who, falling in the flaws of her own youth,
Why, you know 'tis dimpled: I think his smiling
And there is in this business more than nature
Cannot defend our own doors from the dog,
Shout
Proof enough to misuse the prince, to vex Claudio,
That's my mind too. Good morrow, Lord AEneas.
And show'd thee all the qualities o' the isle,
No, sir, no jot; I know your favour well,
cozen somebody in this city under my countenance.
But know not how it went. My second joy
Can draw him but to answer thee in aught,
Thou'lt be afraid to hear it.
When you yourself did part them.
Sir, sooth to say, you did not dine at home.
In half an hour she promised to return.
Yea, even I alone.
Hold thou my sword-hilts, whilst I run on it.
but I dote on his very absence, and I pray God grant
With powerful policy strengthen themselves,
And, this last night, here in Philippi fields:
Rarest sounds! Do ye not hear?
Upon the part o' the people, in whose power
Quickly: and certainly she did you wrong; for you
That cannot be: you are a counsellor,
Here's for my oath, here's for my father's death.
Unless she said ' My mind is now turn'd whore.'
Was the crown offered him thrice?
defect,--'Ladies,'--or 'Fair-ladies--I would wish
Do not I know you for a favourer
Of this dead butcher and his fiend-like queen,
leur noces, il n'est pas la coutume de France.
Jesters do oft prove prophets.
Bring him again: this Jack of Caesar's shall
They have the wisdom by their wit to lose.
Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I
Be pitiful, dread lord, and grant it then.
I have inform'd his highness so at large
Pray ye, sir?
But, ass, I'll take that burthen from your back,
Yea, marry, that's the eftest way. Let the watch
For no name fits thy nature but thy own!
Of your own state take care: this dream of mine,--
Pray God it be, sir.
At each his needless heavings, such as you
Upon the number'd beach? and can we not
Were't not all one, an empty eagle were set
I bleed, sir; but not kill'd.
You say he has been thrown in the rivers and has
What,
Till I conveniently could send to Romeo:
What need you five and twenty, ten, or five,
An understanding simple and unschool'd:
occupation, if I would not have taken him at a word,
And piteous plainings of the pretty babes,
Now to plain-dealing; lay these glozes by:
We never yet made doubt but Rome was ready
My lord,
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
The music plays; vouchsafe some motion to it.
Word of denial: froth and scum, thou liest!
The sun to course two hundred compasses,
And two such shores to two such streams made one,
The partner of your bed. Methinks I see
And by that destiny to perform an act
And, with the rest full-mann'd, from the head of Actium
My lord high constable, the English lie within
So leaves me to consider what is breeding
die a bawd.
Which for some reasons I would not have seen.
Must pity drop upon her. Verily,
'Twas you that kill'd young Rutland, was it not?
Ignomy in ransom and free pardon
He's a disease that must be cut away.
If you may please to think I love the king
[Reads]  'This policy and reverence of age makes
'Tis pity bounty had not eyes behind,
Nor I, ungracious, speak unto myself
Father, I know; and oft have shot at them,
That is, because the traitor murderer lives.
Or that I could forget what I have been,
Blown with the windy tempest of my heart,
not strike the old woman.
I shall hereafter, my thrice gracious lord,
I'll not endure him.
Was Milan thrust from Milan, that his issue
I am sure of that: and at her late being here
refused, and upon the grief of this suddenly died.
rogue, a villain, that fights by the book of
Paris and I kiss evermore for him.
Let pry through the portage of the head
That we two are asunder; let that grieve him:
That's bad enough, for I am but reproach:
Exit
But neither chain nor goldsmith came to me.
That acts my words. The younger brother, Cadwal,
What's she?
Ay, I thank God, my father, and yourself.
content. Here is a letter will say somewhat. Good
If spirits can assume both form and suit
I'ld give bay Curtal and his furniture,
Away! for vengeance comes along with them:
And bonny Kate and sometimes Kate the curst;
At the south entry: retire we to our chamber;
Madam, a noble gentleman of Rome,
That makes the wappen'd widow wed again;
What good is this to England and himself!
Ay, dat is very good; excellent.
swear that I have a poor pennyworth in the English.
Can make good use of either: she being down,
Will easily be granted. You, my lord,
And to your shadow will I make true love.
May't please your highness sit.
Which in the right of Richard Plantagenet
By something showing a more swelling port
I shall be pinch'd to death.
And what your pleasure is, shall satisfy me.
For thou exist'st on many a thousand grains
SCENE II. Kimbolton.
Good argument, I hope, we will not fly--
How now! what's the matter? My old friend Grumio!
By wicked means to frame our sovereign's fall.
The rather for I now must make you know
What is't thou say'st?
Re-enter FALSTAFF
Home to the Centaur, with the gold you gave me.
to notify that her husband will be absence from his
Did grace our hollow parting with a tear.
His son am I; deny it, if you can.
Here's no knavery! See, to beguile the old folks,
My errand is to you, fair youth;
Enter VALENTINE and PROTEUS
Marry, our play is, The most lamentable comedy, and
They say this town is full of cozenage,
I hope thou wilt.
Some certain of your brethren roar'd and ran
I have business to my lord, dear queen. My lord,
If wind and fuel be brought to feed it with:
thou already, that seest not thy loss in
Hence, villain! never more come in my sight.
Of sea and land, which can distinguish 'twixt
Deposed he shall be, in despite of all.
False; we have given thee faces.
Calling him 'Humphrey, the good Duke of
Exeunt BUCKINGHAM and Train
God give thee joy of him! the noble lord
You have done well by water.
Yield at entreats; and then let me alone:
The cordial of mine age to glad my heart!
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
duke will drink under this tree. He hath been all
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole,
Dear lord, go you and greet him in his tent:
In such a business.
[Aside to ISABELLA]  Give't not o'er so: to him
To know the cause why music was ordain'd!
O honey nurse, what news?
Exeunt
And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep,
Sparing would show a worse sin than ill doctrine:
Kent banish'd thus! and France in choler parted!
Fire and brimstone!
With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design
Am I one, sir?
To his own portion! and what expense by the hour
When the sea is. Hence! What cares these roarers
hair, complexion, height, age, with warrant of her
Five have I slain to-day instead of him.
Touching the jointure that your king must make,
cheese will do 't. There's my gauntlet; I'll prove
thy fool to lie: I would fain learn to lie.
The country base than to commit such slaughter
If you'll sit down,
Agrippa further speak.
Grant that, and then is death a benefit:
great cause of the night is lack of the sun; that
But wherefore did you so much tempt the heavens?
Exeunt JAQUES, TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
Enjoy mine own, the country Maine and Anjou,
of an ass, which is no great hurt.
in lieu thereof, impose on thee nothing but this:
A thousand times in secret.
Exeunt DOGBERRY and VERGES
These dreadful summoners grace. I am a man
What glory our Achilles shares from Hector,
For 'tis a sore upon us,
Speak terms of manage to thy bounding steed;
Antony, and Potpan!
If thou wouldst not entomb thyself alive
We know each other well.
So up and down the poor ship drives:
The multitudinous seas in incarnadine,
What I have said to you.
Exit
I'll tell him of you.
I then crave pardon of your majesty.
Not paying me a welcome. Trust me, sweet,
Mark how the blood of Caesar follow'd it,
More potent than the first.
So, haply, are they friends to Antony.
never liked.
Exit Cupid
What would you have me do? I am a subject,
Exeunt PETRUCHIO and GRUMIO
many opportunities to cut him off: if your will
To do this ruthless piece of butchery,
Enlink'd to waste and desolation?
money presently. Wife, take her in; instruct her
Acquaint her with the danger of my state:
Who redeems nature from the general curse
pagan, most sweet Jew! if a Christian did not play
Exit
O, lady, lady, shame would have it hid!
an usurped beard; I say, put money in thy purse. It
What can be said against me.
Nor would I have him till I do deserve him;
otherwise.
Stir up the Athenian youth to merriments;
For my part, I am sorry it is turned to a drinking.
There.
And I to be a corporal of his field,
Come, make him stand upon this molehill here,
Even in the bosom of our adversaries.
And though 'tis wonder that enwraps me thus,
Marry, sir, so painted, to make her fair, that no
I will tell no tales.
boldness of my cunning, I will lay myself in hazard.
So much commend itself, you shall be ours:
Held in contempt; whilst many fair promotions
Brave warriors, march amain towards Coventry.
our spirit,
Look, my lord, it comes!
Tut, tut; good enough to toss; food for powder, food
Genitive,--horum, harum, horum.
change this purpose,
That's certain: I, for my part, knew the tailor
His accusations.
Not in this heat, sir, now.
When Tarquin made a head for Rome, he fought
In which I have commended to his goodness
Maugre thy strength, youth, place, and eminence,
And he shall say you are not well to-day:
And so adieu, good madam: never more
What's he?
Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless,
Why dost thou quiver, man?
Forced to retire by fury of the wind:
Exeunt
[Within]  The porter for this time, sir, and my name
I will none of your money.
Yet hath Sir Proteus, for that's his name,
Which will require your answer, you must take
Have comfort, lady.
Is there any way to show such friendship?
Come, let us four to dinner: I dare say
Here, father, take the shadow of this tree
More hath he spent in peace than they in wars.
Against us brats, with no less confidence
of cohorts, nuptial breaches, and I know not what.
For mine own part, I could be well content
To hear such flattery now, and in my presence;
Of this day's journey, and from nine till twelve
Fits kings, as they are men, for they may err.
majesty, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
Reserve them till a merrier hour than this.
And no way canst thou turn thee for redress,
First, who think you the most desertless man to be
Nothing but peace and gentle visitation.
Sigh'd truer breath; but that I see thee here,
Re-enter GRIFFITH, with CAPUCIUS
The sword of Orleans hath not made me smart;
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
My mistress will before the break of day
Or else it would have gall'd his surly nature,
SCENE III. The English camp.
I thank you gentle servant: 'tis very clerkly done.
and there's the humour of it. Adieu.
Enter BUCKINGHAM and DERBY
Yet I insisted, yet you answer'd not,
But first I will release the fairy queen.
And yet--O, see the monstrousness of man
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do;'
But now I see our lances are but straws,
that going will scarce serve the turn.
The gods forbid!
And promise you calm seas, auspicious gales
With much more ease; for my good will is to it,
To the Fool
Breed him some prejudice; for from this league
Who being accused a crafty murderer,
In each thing give him way, cross him nothing.
A heart unspotted is not easily daunted.
To take a note of what I stand in need of,
We are shame-proof, my lord: and tis some policy
and undoes description to do it.
As far as Belmont.
Should not become my wife and England's queen.
And for the love he beareth to your daughter
The gods themselves do weep!
Which grieves me when I see my shame in him.
There was never a truer rhyme. Let us cast away
My liefest liege to be mine enemy:
they would talk themselves mad.
The earth hath bubbles, as the water has,
Very well. Follow that lord; and look you mock him
Save thou the child, so we may all be safe.
Speak in the order of his funeral.
I was sent for to the king; but why, I know not.
I have stol'n nought, nor would not, though I had found
How! bribe me?
To shake the head, relent, and sigh, and yield
In cypress chests my arras counterpoints,
if you saw him.
Sir, you have wrestled well and overthrown
Fleance his son, that keeps him company,
In our own natures frail, and capable
his pencil, and the painter with his nets; but I am
Hear me, my liege:
If you did know to whom I gave the ring,
Received the golden earnest of our death;
where it is.
Ask my dog: if he say ay, it will! if he say no,
Enter GLOUCESTER
Good master porter, I belong to the larder.
Confess, confess, hath he not hit you here?
How now, sir? what are you reasoning with yourself?
Whose want gives growth to the imperfections
Why, for that too.
the soil, the land, the earth.
Here in Diana's temple.
How now!
I mean the learned ones, in Christian kingdoms
Ay, Greek, that is my name.
Drum and colours. Enter MALCOLM, SIWARD, MACDUFF, and their Army, with boughs
SCENE II. London. The palace.
That heaven's vault should crack. She's gone for ever!
It is a business of some heat: the galleys
out of fear.
Here dies the dusky torch of Mortimer,
Holloa me like a hare.
Which else would post until it had return'd
Flatter and praise, commend, extol their graces;
I read as much as from the rattling tongue
horse; for it is all the wealth that he hath left,
But I will never be a truant, love,
If every one knows us and we know none,
Could never plant in me.
Why, then, O brawling love! O loving hate!
As Jove himself does, Jove would ne'er be quiet,
To-day how many would have given their honours
To him from whom you brought them.
Yes, as an outlaw in a castle keeps
despite of a fall. But, turning these jests out of
The usurper Richard; who, being at Salisbury,
Send her another; never give her o'er;
Enter a Messenger
Whilst summer lasts and I live here, Fidele,
thankfulness. For your own gifts, make yourselves
Ha, majesty! how high thy glory towers,
Marshal, ask yonder knight in arms,
Having God, her conscience, and these bars
A messenger from the Lord Stanley.
That he seems rapt withal: to me you speak not.
extracted from many objects, and indeed the sundry's
Ay, forsooth.
The people will remain uncertain whilst
As able to perform't; his mind and place
[Within]  Francis!
report fort, but that he pays himself with being proud.
Comprising all that may be sworn or said,
But be the serpent under't. He that's coming
in all reason should have quenched her love, hath,
And this it was, for other means was none:
Exeunt
They take it already upon their salvation, that
Trumpet sounds
There must I be unloosed, although not there
fair thoughts be your fair pillow!
There, sir, stop:
To flatter up these powers of mine with rest,
Not only with what my revenue yielded,
Be judged by subject and inferior breath,
Let me march on, and not offend your grace.
And the gods yield you for't!
Arm'd, say you?
Is longer than his foreskirt. By this time
In blood of princes; and their wounded steeds
Whose unavoided eye is murderous.
At Herod's bloody-hunting slaughtermen.
Ay, my lord;
Away, for your relief! and we will live
Forswear Bianca and her love for ever.
Exit
My lord, I dare not make myself so guilty,
Madam, he's gone to serve the duke of Florence:
honour! You will not do it, you!
us; and is very likely to load our purposes with
SCENE III. A field of battle between Towton and Saxton, in
And finding him, the searchers of the town,
Are there no stones in heaven
Launce! by mine honesty, welcome to Milan!
It is meat and drink to me to see a clown: by my
You see how easily she may be surprised:
I boarded the king's ship; now on the beak,
Well, here I am set.
I'll speak no more but 'Vengeance rot you all!'
Now, by the gods, I pity his misfortune,
cloak, when honester men than thou go in their hose
Exit
Lord, how my head aches! what a head have I!
I could have better spared a better man:
No; I'll give thee thy due, thou hast paid all there.
Had answer'd him.
And had intent to murder him;
And thou art but of low degree:
For Brutus' sake, I am beholding to you.
ANTONY comes down
thee for't.
Like Turkish mute, shall have a tongueless mouth,
But music for the time doth change his nature.
'Twould braid yourself too near for me to tell it.
Patience, good lady! comfort, gentle Constance!
And true he swore, though yet forsworn he were.
Will this description satisfy him?
Look sweet, be fair, become disloyalty;
Nor his qualities.
is the justice, which is the thief? Thou hast seen
Oft have you heard me wish for such an hour,
For blood of ours, shed blood of Montague.
By all Diana's waiting-women yond,
you? Show your knave's visage, with a pox to you!
Brother, take you my land, I'll take my chance.
And daily graced by the emperor;
have heard it was ever his manner to do so.
Seyton!--I am sick at heart,
Hail to thee, lady! and the grace of heaven,
For emulation now, who shall be nearest,
I do engage my life.
Mass, thou lovedst plums well, that wouldst
His folly to the mettle of my speech?
That gives them credit.
at Milford-Haven: what your own love will out of
Or a dry wheel grate on the axle-tree;
Bid my guard watch; leave me.
There is no news, my lord, but that he writes
Be soon collected and all things thought upon
Now crouches fore the mouse's hole;
Right,
Do not you love him, madam?
Thy mother's name is ominous to children.
Where we have lived, and so extort from's that
He murder cries and help from Athens calls.
I tell you this: Caesar through Syria
Between that love a woman can bear me
Shall from your neck unloose his amorous fold,
Hardly conceive of me; let it be noised
I must uneasy make, lest too light winning
He knows thy thought:
But honours you; and every one doth wish
Go to him, Dolabella, bid him yield;
In this fine age were not thought flattery,
No, pray thee, let it serve for table-talk;
Cure her of that.
Before thou make a trial of her love?
Whose aged honour cites a virtuous youth,
Well, sir, we will not.
Mark me with what violence she first loved the Moor,
And be perform'd to-night: the solemn feast
With linstock now the devilish cannon touches,
O cross! too high to be enthrall'd to low.
And dare avow her beauty and her worth
And she is fair too, is she not?
Bishop of Exeter, his brother there,
With eight tall ships, three thousand men of war,
the height of heart-heaviness, by how much I shall
And must needs taste his folly.
No such matter, sir: I do live by the church; for
Let me have open means to come to them,
A fine volley of words, gentlemen, and quickly shot off.
Have you so soon forgot the entertainment
Norfolk, we must have knocks; ha! must we not?
While kites and buzzards prey at liberty.
Then let her alone.
That all my bowels crumble up to dust:
Sprung from neglected love. How now, Ophelia!
I found you as a morsel cold upon
Mistress Anne, yourself shall go first.
Southampton.
Kneel thou down Philip, but rise more great,
To worthy danger and deserved death.
Here, catch this casket; it is worth the pains.
Abruptly, as my passion now makes me,
'Tis like enough, for I stay dinner there.
Good morrow, gallants! want ye corn for bread?
'Hath sent to me, wishing me to permit
That such a king should play bo-peep,
Her wagoner a small grey-coated gnat,
More truly now may this be verified;
hereafter, which shall then have no power to stand
Reads
And see the holy edifice of stone,
I told your grace they would talk anon.
Go where you will, the king shall be commanded;
that are fools, let them use their talents.
Are all these things perceived in me?
Yes, that thou hast, whether thou art tainted or free.
Let not the sound of shallow foppery enter
In your behalf still will I wear the same.
In an extravagant and wheeling stranger
love her, I am a Jew. I will go get her picture.
And, by God's mother, I, being but a bachelor,
The vaulty heaven so high above our heads:
Exit
Bring him through the bands.
We purpose her no shame: give her what comforts
Look to your wife; observe her well with Cassio;
And hid the gold within the letter mention'd,
Dies
what is 'that' but 'that,' and 'is' but 'is'?
I wore his sword Philippan.
To lay a complot to betray thy foes.
But every man betake him to his legs.
Shall sleep no more; Macbeth shall sleep no more.'
youth, to skip o'er the meshes of good counsel the
Exit
He being of age to govern of himself?
look some linen for your head.
Now mark him, he begins again to speak.
That old and antique song we heard last night:
Why sweat they under burthens? let their beds
their worships to think it was his infirmity. Three
This is the mouth o' the cell: no noise, and enter.
Be this the whetstone of your sword: let grief
Could send such message to their sovereign:
That seeth not this palpable device?
But that I know them: do they charge me further?
You're welcome, sir.
[Aside to him]  How now, Roderigo!
eyes of Troilus. Ne'er look, ne'er look: the eagles
A silly answer and fitting well a sheep.
The thicket is beset; he cannot 'scape.
The luce is the fresh fish; the salt fish is an old coat.
[Awaking]  Yes, sir, to Milford-Haven; which is
Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace: but
Seeing thou hast proved so unnatural a father
My lord hath sent you this note; and by me this
Say, what art thou that talk'st of kings and queens?
And say 'What is't your honour will command,
But when they shall see, sir, his crest up again,
Our foster-nurse of nature is repose,
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
Master constable, let these men be bound, and
Mount, mount, my soul! thy seat is up on high;
Shall shine at full upon them. Some attend him.
Did you not use his daughter very friendly?
To-morrow, an it please your majesty
The world and my great office will sometimes
And then dreams he of cutting foreign throats,
O, yes, I heard them all, and more too; for some of
Merely upon myself. Vexed I am
Against thy majesty; boys, with women's voices,
Good expedition be my friend, and comfort
Yes.
O, yet I do repent me of my fury,
By running fast.
Go forth and fetch their conquering Caesar in:
If we be not relieved within this hour,
May I change these garments?
Exit MARIA
ANTIPHOLUS
For when the king once heard it, out of anger
On him, his sons, his favourites and his friends.
have her first.' Such a maidenhead were no cheap
Pawn me to this your honour, she is his.
are betray'd
Farewell, my Hector, and my Troy's true hope.
In thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice;
Which stretched to their servants, daughters, wives,
So I lose none
Did you send to him, sir?
England and France, and lord of Ireland,  and c.
Of hope, not longing, mine Italian brain
And kiss'd her lips with such a clamorous smack
You may not deny it: Pompey hath made the challenge.
Lustig, as the Dutchman says: I'll like a maid the
false report of him.
To see you are become so penitent.
Have you the heart? When your head did but ache,
what is his humility? Revenge. If a Christian
By the consent of all, we were establish'd
When with your blood you daily paint her thus.
thing; I'll remember't anon:--even there, thou
I must go seek some dewdrops here
And more I beg not.
Enter BALTHASAR, booted
Where would you had remain'd until this time,
What 'twere to lose it, and be miserable!
Are summer songs for me and my aunts,
As if he master'd there a double spirit.
Before we make election, give me leave
Exeunt
The heavens do lour upon you for some ill;
I stole into a neighbour thicket by,
Stands on the hourly thought.
Full of crusadoes: and, but my noble Moor
In spite of us or aught that we could do.
As, by our hands and this our present act,
the idle husewife with me this afternoon.
place and person, generally allowed for your many
Why, all the souls that were were forfeit once;
Yet he spurs on. Now they are almost on him.
do not, call me villain and baffle me.
That last is true; the sweeter rest was mine.
Inquire me out some mean-born gentleman,
ANTIPHOLUS
SCENE I. Wales: near the cave of Belarius.
Let my master in, Luce.
Now, all my joy
However it is spread in general name,
No, indeed, did she not: here have I brought him
All out of work and cold for action!
professes a hot-house, which, I think, is a very ill house too.
an arm? no: or take away the grief of a wound? no.
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
To give thee from our royal master thanks;
Why Sir John, do you think, though we would have the
'Tis the way
Enter LAFEU
And send you many lovers!
more brain than I have in mine elbows; an assinego
What trumpet's that?
I pray you, sir,
slain thee,
Whom if you find, and win unto return,
And even as willingly at thy feet I leave it
falsely accused, the prince and Claudio mightily
Into a great estate: when he was poor,
My body round engirt with misery,
Why, this is the very same; the very hand, the very
The water nectar and the rocks pure gold.
We can both sing it: if thou'lt bear a part, thou
Good.
Not that I pity Henry's misery,
And lies, and lies: there is my bond of faith,
Is his to use, so Somerset may die.
Nay, not sure, in a thing falsing.
I'll carry it to the pile.
Ay, and we are betroth'd: nay, more, our,
If thou with Caesar paragon again
And he is bred out of that bloody strain
I will assay thee: so, defend thyself.
Kills SATURNINUS. A great tumult. LUCIUS, MARCUS, and others go up into the balcony
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
And throw between them all the food thou hast,
That I was sent for nothing but a rope!
And my integrity to heaven, is all
No, by this heavenly light!
That first that ever touch'd him--he was carried
Which lead directly to the door of truth,
And when it hath the thing it hunteth most,
But men may construe things after their fashion,
And find it out by proclamation:
Up with my tent there! here will I lie tonight;
not peep: an if thou darest,
They that mean virtuously, and yet do so,
Stand fast, Titinius: we must out and talk.
Never came poison from so sweet a place.
Now sways it that way, like the selfsame sea
Unto the appetite and affection common
Not to affect many proposed matches
will you vouchsafe me a word?
That box I gave you was not thought by me
I do but beg a little changeling boy,
of the Romans.
I spoke it, tender juvenal, as a congruent epitheton
Flourish of cornets. Enter the KING, attended  with divers young Lords taking leave for the Florentine war; BERTRAM, and PAROLLES
quite from the answer of his degree.
Master-Gunner	But now thou shalt not. Be thou ruled by me:
Enter RATCLIFF; CATESBY following
The duke's to blame in this; 'twill be ill taken.
I think nothing, my lord.
Gentle cousin,
All little jealousies, which now seem great,
Spur to the rescue of the noble Talbot,
Would buy this for a lie!
mightily grace himself on thee, he will practise
Ay, sir; well, well.
Or thou wert born a fool. Camillo's flight,
From his ambitious finger. What had he
Exit Messenger
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
You do yourself wrong, indeed, la!
The tribunes cannot do't for shame; the people
of gold for thee: if the gentlewoman that attends
I will devise a death as cruel for thee
widow of Vitravio; Signior Placentio and his lovely
The beds i' the east are soft; and thanks to you,
Thomas of Norfolk, what say'st thou to this?
Take Hereford's rights away, and take from Time
I have thee not, and yet I see thee still.
maintain his argument as well as any military man in
But such a one, thy vassal, whom I know
Give me to drink mandragora.
it is a prison.
And bear the sow-skin budget,
Nor is he dead, for aught that I can tell.
Of their disguising and pretended flight;
He'll be hang'd yet,
The cistern of my lust, and my desire
To wait upon this new-made empress.
I'll set thee in a shower of gold, and hail
And all my children?
Ay, sir.
Only to despite them, I will endeavour any thing.
As may be in the world: his youth in flood,
Lechery! I defy lechery. There's one at the gate.
In having known no travel in his youth.
Enter two British Captains and Soldiers
I took him sleeping,--that is finish'd too,--
I hope, sir, your good worship will be my bail.
Above a number, if my actions
Syria, Cilicia, and Phoenicia: she
Instead whereof sharp stakes pluck'd out of hedges
Of how unnatural and bemadding sorrow
Some god direct my judgment! Let me see;
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves,
Upon the gad! Edmund, how now! what news?
One thus descended,
From me, the lord on't.
Return to her, and fifty men dismiss'd?
Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms.
As witting I no other comfort have.
If that thy prosperous and artificial feat
more tavern-bills; which are often the sadness of
support usurers; repeal daily any wholesome act
come to such penury?
Here is a captain, let him tell the tale;
Here in my house do him disparagement:
Indued with intellectual sense and souls,
Put on what weary negligence you please,
Even for your son's sake; and thereby for sealing
Let us look in; the sight will much delight thee.
Go and commend me to my brother Cassius;
And plead my passions for Lavinia's love.
And when the cross blue lightning seem'd to open
Yes, that I will; and wherefore will I do it?
I can no longer hold me patient.
Write down thy mind, bewray thy meaning so,
In her pavilion--cloth-of-gold of tissue--
Something then in rhyme.
Break up the seals and read.
But cold demeanor in Octavius' wing,
these robes are not gentlemen born: give me the
And, among three, to love the worst of all;
Even in the afternoon of her best days,
Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull,
Whoe'er I woo, myself would be his wife.
Thou wrong'st a gentleman, who is as far
In good set terms and yet a motley fool.
I marvel thy master hath not eaten thee for a word;
there is, sir, an aery of children, little eyases,
Have been Tom's food for seven long year.
What do you prate of service?
being but half a fish and half a monster?
Cry the man mercy; love him; take his offer:
This holy shrine, the gentle fine is this:
A murderous guilt shows not itself more soon
I thank you all and here dismiss you all,
I shall not fail to approve the fair conceit
So 'tis said, sir; about his son, that should have
met you at the prison, in the absence of the duke.
That tempers him to this extremity.
With whom I am accused, I do confess
The fit and apt construction of thy name,
My only love sprung from my only hate!
I am not bid to wait upon this bride.
Mortal revenge upon these traitorous Goths,
no less esteemed.
And yet no further than a wanton's bird;
me, and by all pretty oaths that are not dangerous,
Enter SUFFOLK in conference with KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER and EXETER
That brought you home and boldly did outdare
'Tis like you would not feast him like a friend;
Let me have speech with you.
Have never wing'd from view o' the nest, nor know not
Wilt dine with me, Apemantus?
They are inclined to do so.
Fly, brother. Torches, torches! So, farewell.
though they be not to be talked on, yet they are
The mounting Bolingbroke ascends my throne,
Then go with me to make the matter good.
You know I gave it you half an hour since.
Marry, sir, I think, if you handled her privately,
Of the true line and stock of Charles the Great,
Look to the lady:
For his ungrateful country done the like.
ALL SERVING-MEN	Here, here, sir; here, sir.
out, there are members to make new. If there were
And spite of spite needs must I rest awhile.
Command into obedience: fear and niceness--
Smite flat the thick rotundity o' the world!
The four strangers seek for you, madam, to take
I do not like this fooling.
adventure would counsel you to a more equal
call me usurer; let him look to his bond: he was
I beseech you all, be better known to this
What, art thou devout? wast thou in prayer?
What should I see then?
In what, my dear lord?
That I shall make this northern youth exchange
Besides, I like you not. If you will know my house,
Beseech you, tenderly apply to her
To Servant, giving a paper
Hide not thy poison with such sugar'd words;
house; next, this is a respected fellow; and his
It is an honour that I dream not of.
I have provided for you: stay awhile,
When he demean'd himself rough, rude and wildly.
By your own counsel is suppress'd and kill'd:
No, stir not, for your lives; let her pass by.
Enter AUTOLYCUS, singing
Greater than both, by the all-hail hereafter!
gluttonous maws.
Why, what a peevish fool was that of Crete,
Ay, my good lord.
wear out a good wholesome forenoon in hearing a
go not together: she's a good sign, but I have seen
So was I when your highness took his dukedom;
you give me any conserves, give me conserves of
Together with a recompense more fruitful
Knight of his train, to trace the forests wild;
accusation, uncovered slander, unmitigated rancour,
To have this young one made a Christian.
If consequence do but approve my dream,
shalt have a licence to kill for a hundred lacking
Nor store of treasons to augment my guilt;
I do betray myself with blushing. Maid!
I see I cannot get thy father's love;
skirts of the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.
et en peu de temps.
Omission to do what is necessary
Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honour, breath,
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
to most preposterous conclusions: but we have
That is the very defect of the matter, sir.
Away, Patroclus!
way is dangerous, since I cannot yet find in my
Lest thou be hated both of God and man!
By shameful murder of a guiltless king
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
you will have leave,
So well thy words become thee as thy wounds;
Pray, sir, be patient.
Took pains to make thee speak, taught thee each hour
Troth, sir, all is in his hands above: but
That we should dress us fairly for our end.
And some will mourn in ashes, some coal-black,
easy as a cannon will shoot point-blank twelve
Persuades me I was better when a king;
the bee of her honey.
Else would I have a fling at Winchester.
And stops my tongue, while heart is drown'd in cares.
[Aside to MENAS]  I think thou'rt mad.
Is foul as slander.
yet it is not; it is but so so. Art thou wise?
What judgment shall I dread, doing no wrong?
His years but young, but his experience old;
me; by my troth, it is no addition to her wit, nor
Or, rather, do I not in plainest truth
Left her in her tears, and dried not one of them
Of thy success in love, and what news else
Then makes him nothing. I must read this paper;
Without her love; for her employ them all;
any.
The night before there was no purpose in them
It is the show and seal of nature's truth,
His soldiers sick and famish'd in their march,
year, in the afternoon.
And hither have they sent it for her ransom.
the young Lord Paris?
Convert o' the instant, green virginity,
Hark, wretches! how I mean to martyr you.
In one of those same sheets.
The ways are dangerous.
Are you the butcher, Suffolk? Where's your knife?
And that's the mark I know you level at:
And every hair that's on't, Helen, that's dead,
If both were open'd.
Some wine, within there, and our viands! Fortune knows
But what trade art thou? answer me directly.
Than my weak-hearted enemies dare offer.
I shall obey you.
Nor bruise her flowerets with the armed hoofs
For thee, oppressed king, am I cast down;
The affliction of my mind amends, with which,
In Egypt with his joy; but between both:
If you are so fond over her iniquity, give her
The sun, that looks upon his worshipper,
runs presently mad. God help the noble Claudio! if
With Eleanor, for telling but her dream?
You should ask me what time o' day: there's no clock
And sack great Rome with Romans.
To move wild laughter in the throat of death?
corner and cry heigh-ho for a husband!
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO, for Hector
He was my friend, faithful and just to me:
Guard me, beseech ye.
Will call discreet proceeding.
never spake other English in his life than 'Eight
And feed his humour kindly as we may,
Will no more hear from thence.
As I am sick with working of my thoughts.
'twill serve.
Stop close their mouths, let them not speak a word.
I have the letter here; yes, here it is.
Why, how now, Dromio! where runn'st thou so fast?
with hope, till the wicked fire of lust have melted
The which shall point you forth at every sitting
But mine shall be a comfort to your age.
As I can take it with another herb,
Have you forgot me, sir?
What is he that builds stronger than either the
Some tricks of desperation. All but mariners
Such separation as may well be said
man: and then to 'scape drowning thrice, and to be
Say, she shall be a high and mighty queen.
Make that good.
I am sorry thou wilt leave my father so:
Whoever gave that counsel, to give forth
And is a pattern of celestial peace.
The continent and summary of my fortune.
Kneel not to me:
Royal cheer, I warrant you.
And since, methinks, I would not grow so fast,
But your reason was not substantial, why there is no
To the freshest things now reigning and make stale
Let's see't. I will pursue her
The imperial Caesar, should again unite
But first I'll turn yon fellow in his grave;
Let her hang me: he that is well hanged in this
give your dispositions the reins, and be angry at
Made hard with kneeling, I do pray to thee,
back and finds her lover?
He has betray'd your business, and given up,
Which, by their graces, I will keep.
Give me the map there. Know that we have divided
They do it but in mocking merriment;
Be humble to us; call my sovereign yours,
the skirts of it, and beat me to death with a bottom
they swear in poetry may be said as lovers they do feign.
Enter, at the other end of the churchyard, FRIAR LAURENCE, with a lantern, crow, and spade
Or women's sake, by whom we men are men,
For he hath witness of his servant's malice:
The strangeness of this business; at pick'd leisure
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
As well my undertakings as your counsels:
What heaven hath given him,--let some graver eye
[Aside]  He takes her by the palm: ay, well said,
Thus to mine eyes. Now o'er the one halfworld
But is this true, sir?
'Twixt fair and foul?
It will outrun you, father, in the end.
So may you lose your arms:
For 'tis thy presence that exhales this blood
That ever ear received: which in recounting
I hope no less, yet needful 'tis to fear;
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, HENRY PERCY, and other Lords
He cries for you, and vows, if he can take you,
Thou tedious rogue! I am sorry I shall lose
And I will set this foot of mine as far
With others whom the rigor of our state
I know no touch of it, my lord.
Exit
Il me commande de vous dire que vous faites vous
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
not trouble them. Come, bring away thy pack after
But, lest myself be guilty to self-wrong,
And when thou find'st a man that's like thyself.
shirts and smocks, socks, foul stockings, greasy
The cordial that ye bring a wretched lady,
To Ireland, I; our separated fortune
More worth than any man; men, that she is
The time hath been,
with consolation; your old smock brings forth a new
Out on you, owls! nothing but songs of death?
He does well to commend it himself; there are no
You may not pass, you must return: our general
ACT V
She is our capital demand, comprised
And five years since there was some speech of marriage
Will you hoist sail, sir? here lies your way.
Sprawl'st thou? take that, to end thy agony.
[To MARINA]  First, I would have you note, this is
Upright he held it, lords, that held it last.
planetary influence; and all that we are evil in,
Will't please your highness walk?
And I his clerk; therefore be well advised
Welcome, sweet prince, to London, to your chamber.
terms, as I may: and that's the humour of it.
But in plain shock and even play of battle,
And being rich, my virtue then shall be
I pity you.
Though I show ill in't. So I take my leave.
And lo, where George of Clarence sweeps along,
More, she's a traitor and Camillo is
He shall enlarge him: fetch Malvolio hither:
Steal me awhile from mine own company.
For locking me out of my doors by day.
And all the conduits of my blood froze up,
To furnish me with some swift means of death
And borne her cleanly by the keeper's nose?
Who hath cause to wet the grief on't.
this box; and must the inheritor himself have no more, ha?
But do not speak to me. Lead me to my chamber.
Why seems it so particular with thee?
And more than may be gather'd by thy shape.
Long mayst thou live to wail thy children's loss;
And bring thy master home immediately.
Your infants in your arms, and there have sat
That do no work to-day!
Therefore the Dukes of Berri and of Bretagne,
Nothing will come of nothing: speak again.
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
No longer from head to foot than from hip to hip:
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
His insolence is more intolerable
And climb the highest promontory top.
The breast of heaven, I did present myself
Beseech you, first go with me to my house,
And profound Solomon to tune a jig,
for our own doth little advantage. If he be not
And I do stand engaged to many Greeks,
The empire of the sea: our slippery people,
But am in that dimension grossly clad
Never saw like thee. Let an old man embrace thee;
Commend me to my kind lord: O, farewell!
The man is noble and his fame folds-in
I'll write to him a very taunting letter,
Must minister to himself.
My lips are no common, though several they be.
the air, promise-crammed: you cannot feed capons so.
Thou wilt amend thy life?
And is Aufidius with him? You are they
Thou,--and thou,--and thou:--you have served me well,
We are reconciled, and the first view shall kill
What title hast thou, traitor, to the crown?
Riddling confession finds but riddling shrift.
Enter Provost and a Servant
Ay me, detested! how am I beguiled!
Our corn's to reap, for yet our tithe's to sow.
And all the fellowship I hold now with him
Enter CELIA and ROSALIND
Is tight and yare and bravely rigg'd as when
I bid my very friends and countrymen,
And ever welcome to us.
Against this man, whose honesty the devil
That the stretching of a span
Doth choke the air with dust: in, and prepare:
You are my guest, Lavinia, and your friends.
What, not a word? you take your pennyworths now;
Now you talk of a sheet of paper, I remember a
Enter QUINCE for the Prologue
Upon your charter and your city's freedom.
Dies
And with a virtuous vizard hide foul guile!
I thank thee, master.
Enter the corpse of KING HENRY the Sixth, Gentlemen with halberds to guard it; LADY ANNE being the mourner
Ever God bless your highness!
My heart prays for him, though my tongue do curse.
Our king and all his company.
And Earl of Richmond; and this rich fair town
And waked half dead with nothing. Worthy Marcius,
Wherever the bright sun of heaven shall shine,
I am sorry that such sorrow I procure:
So shall I evermore be bound to thee;
Love, lend me patience to forbear awhile.
I'll whip thee with a rod: he is defiled
It shall be his. You shall close prisoner rest,
Whose state and honour I for aye allow.
Provoked by him, you cannot--the great danger
Exeunt severally
How some have been deposed; some slain in war,
You do not?
But to the purpose--for we cite our faults,
Pray you, sir, stand up: I am sure you are not
Without the which we are pictures, or mere beasts:
As honest madam's issue? Why brand they us
A good mouth-filling oath, and leave 'in sooth,'
Off with my boots, you rogues! you villains, when?
I hold it not honesty to have it thus set down, for
it were his; but, in respect of that, I would
And I forgive and quite forget old faults,
Fie! charity, for shame! speak not in spite,
How France and Frenchmen might be kept in awe,
horses: the duke himself will be to-morrow at
Who ever but his approbation added,
By a divine instinct men's minds mistrust
Ere he express himself, or move the people
Lo, here, this long-usurped royalty
For such a sight will blind a father's eye:
God, God forgive us all! Look after her;
That desperately he hurried through the street,
Before the wheels of Phoebus, round about
Now, by the stock and honour of my kin,
People and senators, be not affrighted;
And she for him pleads strongly to the Moor,
She shall be habited as it becomes
I too: he does it with a better grace, but I do it
But she, more covetous, would have a chain.
What's her name?
Hot coals of vengeance! Let no soldier fly.
[Within]  Servilius, help! My lord! my lord!
I think it best you married with the county.
Exit
My best attires: I am again for Cydnus,
Believe it, this is true:
And I shall have no power to follow you.
Who ever saw the like? what men have I!
I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with
Fair leave and large security. How may
O Caesar, what a wounding shame is this,
settled only in rogue: some call him Autolycus.
What is my ransom, master? let me know.
Paints itself black, to imitate her brow.
Mistress, your father prays you leave your books
No richer than his honour: how he glisters
SCENE III. The same.
That in the sty of this most bloody boar
make not this cheat bring out another and the
The king my father wreck'd.
I cannot speak of this. Come now, your promise.
Yea, two and two, Newgate fashion.
gods! O fine villain! A silken doublet! a velvet
This civil war of wits were much better used
Roger had issue, Edmund, Anne and Eleanor.
Flourish
Upon whose grave thou vow'dst pure chastity.
Though I could 'scape shot-free at London, I fear
That is to see how deep my grave is made;
SCENE II. The same. Another room.
But you must join in souls to mock me too?
The worth that learned charity aye wears:
Officers, what offence have these men done?
Yea, but you must not make the full show of this
Yea, and to marry her, if her dowry please.
But that of coward hares, hot goats, and venison!
he's a cat to me.
No, if a Scot would save his soul, he shall not:
More fresh in Julia's with a constant eye?
and so there is, but it lies as coldly in him as fire
The capon burns, the pig falls from the spit,
I will in Cassio's lodging lose this napkin,
Advances to CAESAR
To the end of reckoning.
tunes, let a cup of sack be my poison: when a jest
Nor here provincial. My business in this state
Greater than shows itself at the first view
To wash the eyes of kings.
Is left this vault to brag of.
My Oberon! what visions have I seen!
Hath kill'd the flock of all affections else
Enter HOTSPUR and DOUGLAS
Exeunt
Wounds his arm
Most gentle and most valiant Hector, welcome:
And twelve tight galleys: these I will assure her,
think it fit to shore them again and that the
Come hither, come! come, come, and take a queen
In our last conference, pass'd in probation with you,
I thank thee for't: my shipwreck now's no ill,
With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore:
While you have throats to answer: for myself,
The very wings of reason to his heels
More than Octavius and Mark Antony
Visit both prince and people: therefore, I prithee,
Not I, I assure thee: setting the attractions of my
And needs no other suitor but his likings
That creep like shadows by him and do sigh
And with a kind of umber smirch my face;
Let music sound while he doth make his choice;
wilt not promise, the gods plague thee, for thou art
Imploring pardon.
No sheep, sweet lamb, unless we feed on your lips.
And then awake as from a pleasant sleep.
things, all but what she has with her: this being
Why did he marry Fulvia, and not love her?
fairly done, no matter.
O, now you weep; and, I perceive, you feel
Her sister Katharina welcomed you withal?
Than man could give him, he died fearing God.
Though little fire grows great with little wind,
[To OCTAVIUS CAESAR]  Thus do they, sir: they take
Inherit at my house; hear all, all see,
Which is indeed but sign. That you shall surely find him,
Than keep in peace that hand which thou dost hold.
First Serving-Man	It is the noble Duke of Gloucester.
If you shall cleave to my consent, when 'tis,
Exeunt, carrying her away
I should believe you:
Lives he, good uncle? thrice within this hour
I am sure, have shown at full their royal minds--
mirth: Heaven forgive me! Why, I'll exhibit a bill
Be not familiar with her.
Yes, other men have ill luck too: Antonio, as I
I look'd her in the face, and saw her led
Mine was secure.
These are my mates, that make their wills their law,
Ay, noble father, if our words will serve.
to the Antipodes that you can devise to send me on;
why, that's nothing; an he begin once, he'll rail in
And princess no worse issued.
Fare you well; your suit is cold.
Belike that now she hath enfranchised them
We still have known thee for a holy man.
O, by no means,
If they be senators: and they are no less,
Well, well;
Good Sir Toby!
speak in your own behalf; and thus far I confirm
I know no news, my lord.
as much safety you might answer him: therefore, on,
These sentences, to sugar, or to gall,
Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.
I never spake with her, saw her, nor heard from her,
'Faith, and I'll send him packing.
Go to, i' faith; an thou wilt needs thrust thy neck
Will make him fly an ordinary pitch,
Why, what is he? as good a man as York.
A hundred almshouses right well supplied;
The trumpet sounds: be mask'd; the maskers come.
That thine own trip shall be thine overthrow?
If he love Caesar, all that he can do
How strangely?
That not a tear can fall for Rutland's death?
button, a duellist, a duellist; a gentleman of the
His absolute 'shall'?
I do.
Come, go we in procession to the village.
Great cause to give great thanks.
And, which is more, she is not so divine,
For Venus smiles not in a house of tears.
And not bewray thy treason with a blush?
SCENE IV. Plains near Tewksbury.
For it is done, my lord.
'Small herbs have grace, great weeds do grow apace:'
picture, she says, that you wot of: Master Ford,
I am your debtor, claim it when 'tis due.
I'll take my oath on it, till he have made an oyster
These present wars against the Ottomites.
Prithee, speak:
Who bare my letter, then, to Romeo?
The itch of his affection should not then
Great Juno, comes; I know her by her gait.
what is this quintessence of dust? man delights not
The Spaniard, tied blood and favour to her,
Work, work your thoughts, and therein see a siege;
Who then recover: say thou art mine, and ever
Something of moment then: I will go meet him:
What said my man, when my betossed soul
In this the heaven figures some event.
Talk not, Signior Gremio: I say he shall go to prison.
Yield, Marcius, yield!
Hubert, I think?
Are many simples operative, whose power
The importancy of Cyprus to the Turk,
Is there no way for men to be but women
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz:
I'll send him certain word of my success.
When you shall these unlucky deeds relate,
Which dreams indeed are ambition, for the very
And make a dark night too of half the day--
He then unto the ladder turns his back,
Enter CADE and the rest, and strikes his staff on London-stone
But hear these ill news with the ears of Claudio.
Shall rest in London till we come to him.
Hark, hark!
And be all traitors that do so?
Than gilt his trophy: the breasts of Hecuba,
It cannot be i' the eye, for apes and monkeys
And, with my best endeavours in your absence,
I never did her hurt in all my life:
Aside
Hymen from heaven brought her,
business, I am therefore no courtier? I am courtier
By sick interpreters, once weak ones, is
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, CLIFFORD, NORTHUMBERLAND, WESTMORELAND, EXETER, and the rest
God give you joy, sir, of your gallant bride!
He does well in 't.
Wherefore, bold peasant,
Servants embrace, and part several ways
performances are no kin together.
Who I myself struck down; and thence it is,
To sunder his that was thine enemy?
Peace, ho! let us hear him.
There's for you, Patroclus.
What news, my friend?
Did feign that Orpheus drew trees, stones and floods;
[Within]  An answer from the king, or we will all break in!
What answer makes King Lewis unto our letters?
This health to Lepidus!
Fair Beatrice, I thank you for your pains.
As for your spiteful false objections,
Mark then abounding valour in our English,
But yet I run before my horse to market:
To the sharp'st kind of justice. Please you sir,
higher, or return again into France?
The purple testament of bleeding war;
Re-enter WORCESTER
No; God forbid your grace should be forsworn.
From this earth-vexing smart.
To shield thee from diseases of the world;
That e'er our hearts shall make!
Makes us hear something.
Will have it so. On, lord; we'll follow you.
Exeunt
I' the justice of compare! O villain Leonine!
A quarrel, ho, already! what's the matter?
Upon Saint Davy's day.
Hath married the fair lady.
All the infections that the sun sucks up
bound to answer the particular endings of his
We will give up our right in Aquitaine,
Not to outsport discretion.
Cannot be border'd certain in itself;
The residence of Posthumus; so nigh at least
I had rather be a country servant-maid
So children temporal fathers do appease;
Make your best haste, and go not
I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
Even as I would when I to love begin.
Farewell, good brother: we shall thrive, I trust.
straight arms, none.
With our own charge, making a treaty where
Within thy help and holy physic lies:
in simple time; I cannot: but I love thee; none
Within the earth; and, therein laid,--there lies
Here after excursions, enter the Herald of France, with trumpets, to the gates
But is there any else longs to see this broken music
Measureless liar, thou hast made my heart
Ten is the hour that was appointed me
Make thee a fortune from me.
Are like to rot untasted. Go and tell him,
ACT I
Spare thy Athenian cradle and those kin
This be not cherish'd.
Why, that's the way to choke a gibing spirit,
And this you might have heard of here, by me,
All the better; we shall be the more marketable.
It may be heard at court that such as we
And such a deal of skimble-skamble stuff
Very strangely, they say.
Exit
He'll woo a thousand, 'point the day of marriage,
With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that
It is a quarrel just and reasonable,
crowns neither. Holla, Dennis!
And her immortal part with angels lives.
look you, of my mind, as touching the direction of
Dies
it?
And make me die the thrall of Margaret's curse,
We do instate and widow you withal,
Or yield up Aquitaine.
Never sound more! when drums and trumpets shall
Have I laid my brain in the sun and dried it, that
Speak, who began this? on thy love, I charge thee.
The ruddiness upon her lip is wet;
O, sir, to such as boasting show their scars
Sound drums and trumpets! farewell sour annoy!
By holy marriage: when and where and how
Even in the best blood chamber'd in his bosom.
Enter soldiers, with PRINCE EDWARD
Where I must take like seat unto my fortune,
Shall we clap into't roundly, without hawking or
Or, if not so, thy noble heart to break:
Thy cruelty in execution
that all the beholders take his part with weeping.
Live elves and fairies in a ring,
My Dionyza, shall we rest us here,
And so, I take my leave, and thank you both.
That o'er the green corn-field did pass
sir, we had but two in the house, which at that very
Of this most fair occasion, by the which
Mine issue of your blood upon your daughter
Margaret shall now be queen, and rule the king;
My lord, I know him; 'tis a meddling friar;
SCENE II. A room in FORD'S house.
One twelve moons more she'll wear Diana's livery;
The vantage of his anger.
No more to the crown but that. Lo, who comes here?
Of us that trade in love.
To beg enfranchisement for Publius Cimber.
Caesar's sister is called Octavia.
some violets, but they withered all when my father
But Imogen is your own: do your best wills,
Flourish. Alarums
hot, my very lips might freeze to my teeth, my
Item, Sack, two gallons, 5s. 8d.
It is not for you: I have heard it over,
Take away these chalices. Go brew me a pottle of
So much the more our carver's excellence;
Will live as maids and widows. Come, away!
To some remote and desert place quite out
What made me love thee? let that persuade thee
And other of your highness' privy-council;
Alarum. Re-enter MESSALA, with BRUTUS, CATO, STRATO, VOLUMNIUS, and LUCILIUS
To hurt by being just: it is as lawful,
does not greatly care.
These differences shall all rest under gage
What is 'Pourquoi'? do or not do? I would I had
world! world! thus is the poor agent despised!
though I would not have it grow on my chin. Is thy
Come to the Centaur; fetch our stuff from thence:
A sleeping potion; which so took effect
did she, an hour together, transshape thy particular
Blow, and split thyself.
I say, my sovereign, York is meetest man
If you'll confess he brought home noble prize--
Might I a son and daughter now have look'd on,
lady in the fountain of our love?
Beldam, I think we watch'd you at an inch.
Draws on apace; four happy days bring in
What you will have, I'll give, and willing too;
And many unrough youths that even now
Has much disgraced me in't; I'm angry at him,
Come, shall we go and kill us venison?
Before my God, I might not this believe
Because I cannot meet my Hermia.
Once in a month recount what thou hast been,
Upon the error that you heard debated:
I love and hate her: for she's fair and royal,
Where is my lord of Gloucester?
And like the tyrannous breathing of the north
Could I but catch it for them.
And bear possession of our person here,
That's meat and drink to me, now. I have seen
both. I am the king; for so stands the comparison:
I must confess that I have heard so much,
Exit
That I some lady trifles have reserved,
Confederates all thus to dishonour me.
And hunger will enforce them to be more eager:
Betwixt two charming words, comes in my father
Did nearer float upon the swelling tide,
There shall your master have a thousand loves,
A man, as you are.
Let me alone.
you stolen his? or both? pray, what's the news?
hadst been poor John. Draw thy tool! here comes
The exhalations whizzing in the air
Seldom or never jumpeth with the heart.
Particularities and petty sounds
Will change to virtue and to worthiness.
Not meaning to partake with me in danger,
Of smiling peace to march a bloody host,
Thy maiden sword.
A vulgar comment will be made of it,
And He that might the vantage best have took
pathetical!
Now step I forth to whip hypocrisy.
That slily glided towards your majesty,
I think it well, my lord.
admiration, though the catalogue of his endowments
I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial,
Might well have made our sport a comedy.
Not fit to govern and rule multitudes,
To saucy doubts and fears. But Banquo's safe?
O, here it is. Uncle, I must come forth.
At the Saint Francis here beside the port.
For at Saint Mary's chapel presently
And hold their manhoods cheap whiles any speaks
Madam, I will.
To whom, my lord? with whom? how am I false?
'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
We are not thieves, but men that much do want.
In my mind's eye, Horatio.
He that is truly dedicate to war
You come to take your stand here, and behold
And so, proud-hearted Warwick, I defy thee,
A world by itself; and we will nothing pay
For false forswearing and for murder too:
Cries of itself 'No more:' now breathless wrong
I do not say 'thwack our general;' but he was always
Dies
The consequence is then thy jealous fits
how is't with you, man?
Look ye draw home enough, and 'tis there straight.
Thereof the raging fire of fever bred;
[Aside to RODERIGO]  Away, I say; go out, and cry a mutiny.
Did he write this?
And saw the lion's shadow ere himself
four elements?
And happily repent.
Now is it manhood, wisdom and defence,
That everything I look on seemeth green:
I thank you: God be with you!
The king shall drink to Hamlet's better breath;
them had in them more feet than the verses would bear.
Let me request you off: our graver business
How is't, brother!
Wherein Olivia may seem serviceable?
Like fragments in hard voyages, became
Was stabb'd with bloody daggers: God, I pray him,
Bear him to the rock Tarpeian, and from thence
Farewell.
Upon the stroke of ten.
Therefore, since law itself is perfect wrong,
Thoughts that would thick my blood.
He hath some meaning in his mad attire:
Worst in this royal presence may I speak,
Thus stands my state, 'twixt Cade and York distress'd.
How now! what news?
Thou speak'st like him's untutor'd to repeat:
Ten years are spent since first he undertook
Say, then, my peace is made.
Shall for itself itself perform.
As ever you came of women, come in quickly to Sir
And Marian's nose looks red and raw,
For she will score your fault upon my pate.
Than when I met thee last where now we meet:
I do demand,
On her dead mistress; tremblingly she stood
I should be false persuaded I had daughters.
To dream on evil or to work my downfall.
Which is as brief as I have known a play;
In the next chamber.
She moves me not, or not removes, at least,
I think their inhibition comes by the means of the
And with mine eyes I'll drink the words you send,
O miserable thought! and more unlikely
Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
belongs to a watch.
'Ban, 'Ban, Cacaliban
How?
On my black coffin let there be strown;
Exeunt
Do you hear, sir? To leave frivolous circumstances,
Out of thy sleep. What is it thou didst say?
or come tardy off, though it make the unskilful
The issue of an irreligious Moor,
Thou art my heir; the rest I wish thee gather:
Worthy fellows; and like to prove most sinewy sword-men.
them plainly see't.
Then hast thou all again. Poor lord! is't I
Enter CATESBY
Sir, she is mortal;
Most vilely; for my vantage, excellent:
Allons! allons! Sow'd cockle reap'd no corn;
Re-enter BRUTUS and SICINIUS, with the rabble
gibbets, I never saw one so prone. Yet, on my
What less than dooms-day is the prince's doom?
Why, he stalks up and down like a peacock,--a stride
I grant him part; but then, in his Armenia,
[Aside]  Scarce can I speak, my choler is so great:
To have thee crown'd withal.
this true?
He was; I heard the proclamation:
But will suspect 'twas he that made the slaughter?
Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS
Are all things fitting for that royal time?
You must no more.
And whiter than the sheets! That I might touch!
I'll never care what wickedness I do,
Some one way, some another. Do you know
[To BERTRAM]  I dare not say I take you; but I give
What, ho, Pisanio!
Enter GLOUCESTER
It is the more like to be feigned: I pray you,
Shall thy old dugs once more a traitor rear?
You shall not in your funeral speech blame us,
That's done, as near as the extremest ends
Should not be utter'd feebly. It is held
Lay down my soul at stake: if you think other,
Stands without blemish. Next, it imports no reason
As make the angels weep; who, with our spleens,
I give consent to go along with you,
Enter a Messenger
To sell a bargain well is as cunning as fast and loose:
'Tis better as it is.
That you beat me at the mart, I have your hand to show:
That lie too heavy on the commonwealth,
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledged comrade. Beware
That many have their giddy brains knock'd out:
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
O, that we then could come by Caesar's spirit,
To hear and see her plaints, her brinish tears.
What's thy passion!
of harmony.
Is he gone?
To DESDEMONA
And of such great authority in France
No; for I hold him to be unworthy of his place that
him heart-whole.
With language that would make me spurn the sea,
SCENE I. The coast of Kent.
Poor key-cold figure of a holy king!
escaped upon a butt of sack which the sailors
I hope I shall know your honour better.
gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment,
'Faith, he is posted hence on serious matter.
Deserve our better wishes.
found 'em, there I smelt 'em out. Go to, they are
Such as I love; and you, among the store,
Who after Edward the Third's death reign'd as king;
O my lord,
My lord, some two days since I saw the prince,
But I was made a king, at nine months old.
cudgelled, they would melt me out of my fat drop by
turns up the white o' the eye to his discourse. But
O, pardon me, my lord; it oft falls out,
Trim gallants, full of courtship and of state.
But when you are well pleased.
first stroke, I'll run him up to the hilts, as I am a soldier.
Britons must take. For me, my ransom's death;
As i' the command of Caesar: I dare him therefore
At last by notes of household harmony
Please it your grace, on to the state-affairs:
So to offend him still. This night's the time
Beginning nor supplyment.
O, then unfold the passion of my love,
With his mouth full of news.
You lose a thousand well-disposed hearts
You'll not bear a letter for me, you rogue! you
the eleven I paid.
Go, hop me over every kennel home,
I clear'd him with five talents: greet him from me;
ho! here he comes, to beguile two hours in a sleep,
[Aside]  True; from a gentleman to a fool.
robes, burning, burning. If thou wert any way
Doubt not, sir;
Stand I condemn'd for pride and scorn so much?
We'll rest us, Hermia, if you think it good,
To the tub-fast and the diet.
You are such another!
Unless by robbing of your friends and us.
O God, have I overcome mine enemy in this presence?
But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two:
What is't?
phrase,--that had the whole theoric of war in the
That erst did follow thy proud chariot-wheels
Exeunt
Be not obdurate, open thy deaf ears.
I confess both: they are both the varnish of a
And a clear life ensuing.
He hath been most notoriously abused.
There is no tarrying here; the hart Achilles
So loving-jealous of his liberty.
out' says the third: 'Hang him up' says the duke.
You did continue fault and that you slipp'd not
And so he'll die; and, rising so again,
Till Saturninus be Rome's emperor.
See where she comes and brings your froward wives
The herd hath more annoyance by the breeze
O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven
Let us resolve to scale their flinty bulwarks.
Which He hath given for fence impregnable,
Weeping as fast as they stream forth thy blood,
Stands here for God, his sovereign and himself,
If from the field I shall return once more
This is the day appointed for the combat;
I have news to tell you: come, come, give me your hand.
And in conclusion to oppose the bolt
Will this capriccio hold in thee? art sure?
I know not that; but such a handkerchief--
Which, as I take it, is a kind of puppy
Thou art perfect.
Which once thou sworest was worth the looking on;
remuneration:' why, it carries it. Remuneration!
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
Sport! of what colour?
The difference of old Shylock and Bassanio:--
Do not I know thou wouldst?
Enter DUKE OF YORK, attended
My jerkin is a doublet.
yourself and all the world know to be no petter
speak plain and to the purpose, like an honest man
Have I deserved at your highness' hands.
And full as much, for more there cannot be,
Welcome him then according to his worth.
By all their influences, you may as well
himself. Certainly the Jew is the very devil
What should we say, my lord?
They tax our policy, and call it cowardice,
From youth of such a season, 'fore noble Lucius
All causes to the purpose of his speed,
A' will make the man mad, to make a woman of him.
the young man, he would have been horn-mad.
world no injury, for in it I have nothing; only in
jack, upon an up-cast to be hit away! I had a
I know not whether to depart in silence,
hath the worser sole. This shoe, with the hole in
With contemplation and devout desires.
Exit
Either his notion weakens, his discernings
Now, for my life, the knave doth court my love:
Younger than she are happy mothers made.
He bears too great a mind. But this same day
Blessing on your heart for't!
Re-enter LUCIUS, with the gown
No, it begins again.
She that doth call me husband, even my soul
that, my lord, no more o' that: you mar all with
Against thee presently, if thou darest stand.
What thinkest thou, will our friends prove all true?
From all the impure blots and stains thereof;
Who cannot steal a shape that means deceit?
That they will waste their time upon our note,
To wish him dead, but thou hadst none to kill him.
Does an irresolute purpose.
how thine eye would emulate the diamond: thou hast
How well this yielding rescues thee from shame!
And do a deed that fortune never did,
With letters of entreaty, which imported
But age, with his stealing steps,
Thoughts tending to content flatter themselves
It shall be so; he shall to Brittany.
Hath been but for a wayward son,
I cannot hear of any that did see her.
What, angry, Sir Thurio! do you change colour?
And now loud-howling wolves arouse the jades
'Tis certain so; the prince wooes for himself.
Not so, neither; but I am resolved on two points.
Nay, that's not your way.
And pay no worship to the garish sun.
So was his will in his old feeble body.
Seeming to bear it lightly. Take me up:
I do believe thee:
DON
Here they'll be, man. Some o' their plants are
And my consent ne'er ask'd herein before!
I'll not come back; the tidings that I bring
Yes, verily and in truth, you shall take it; or I
I am that merry wanderer of the night.
As Cassius' legions are by Antony.
To be invested.
There's nothing situate under heaven's eye
It is engender'd in the eyes,
SCENE II. Another part of the wood.
Thou shouldst have better pleased me with this deed,
wants. I pray you, fail me not.
worse after dinner, I will not part from thee yet.
ACT II
My way is now to hie home to his house,
And if she chance to nod I'll rail and brawl
O Stephano. hast any more of this?
Do thou stand for my father, and examine me upon the
Most heathenish and most gross!
being, as I am, littered under Mercury, was likewise
great opposer, Coriolanus, being now in no request
as well drawn as his; no less young, more strong,
I am but mad north-north-west: when the wind is
I heard him say, Brutus and Cassius
For this fool gudgeon, this opinion.
Exeunt OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, and their army
Of my endurance, thou art a man, and I
That hast within thee undivulged crimes,
Is south the chamber, and the chimney-piece
Ay, you have been a mouse-hunt in your time;
That ever penury, in contempt of man,
Against my king and nephew, virtuous Henry,
Firm and irrevocable is my doom
A fool in good clothes, and something like thee.
Is this of hers! Lord cardinal, will your grace
Like to my followers in prosperity,
discharging less than the tenth part of one. They
To hinder our beginnings. We doubt not now
Enter EDWARD, running
And therefore, lovely Tamora, queen of Goths,
To say extremity was the trier of spirits;
O, but she is wise.
So is she heir of Naples; 'twixt which regions
Master, go on, and I will follow thee,
Take thou some of it, and seek through this grove:
That hath more scars of sorrow in his heart
How it did grieve Macbeth! did he not straight
That makes amends for her sour breath.
Some faults to make us men. Caesar is touch'd.
And they to him are angels.
I would have salved it with a longer treatise.
I wonder how the king escaped our hands.
Exit, attended
I hate ingratitude more in a man
And, pray, receive 'em nobly, and conduct 'em
Enter CORIN and TOUCHSTONE
Be manly, and take comfort.
From him I come
I am possess'd of: 'tis exactly valued;
quality that it is but a shadow's shadow.
What sport shall we devise here in this garden,
To shame unvulnerable, and stick i' the wars
I shall do't, my lord.
And mine, to eke out hers.
Sent from your brother, Marquess Montague:
So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn.
You mistake, knight; 'accost' is front her, board
Methinks, false hearts should never have sound legs,
ways do lie open.
That I may tell pale-hearted fear it lies,
than lack it where there is such abundance.
To me above this wretchedness? all your studies
Stoop to the block than these knees bow to any
By the second hour i' the morn.
I' the city of kites and crows.
[To WARWICK]  My lord ambassador, these letters are for you,
Of your own cause. Is this the witness, friar?
at that time, overfond of the shepherd's daughter,
Four fixed, and the fifth did whirl about
It is his five senses: fie, what the ignorance is!
highness wronged.
Or what is he of basest function
But, he away, 'tis noble.
Shall I be frighted when a madman stares?
Ay, thou wast born to be a plague to men.
That's good; 'mobled queen' is good.
ACT IV
And you, good sir! Pray, have you not a daughter
The hunt is up, the morn is bright and grey,
That matter needless, of importless burden,
Then be it so: heavens keep old Bedford safe!
I humbly thank you, sir. Dost know this water-fly?
Unscissor'd shall this hair of mine remain,
Must strike her sail and learn awhile to serve
Not any, but abide the change of time,
Such noble fury in so poor a thing;
I bear a charmed life, which must not yield,
Industrious soldiership.
And in the instant that I met with you
And all for her; a plague upon her!
miracle. I am eight times thrust through the
So bear I thee upon my manly shoulders;
defender of them, and, in a violent popular
Did graciously plead for his funerals:
secrets! I'll after, to rejoice in the boy's correction.
Did, as heir general, being descended
They are reformed, civil, full of good
Good faith, a little one; not past a pint, as I am
And shall the figure of God's majesty,
Ride, ride, Messala: let them all come down.
He will seek there, on my word. Neither press,
Who, having seen me in my worst estate,
Sixscore fat oxen standing in my stalls,
neither do I labour for a greater esteem than may in
That he his high authority abused,
To one that would have him help to waste
Is husband in my mouth! even for that name,
But he fell to himself again, and sweetly
That spaniel'd me at heels, to whom I gave
Subtly hath minister'd to have me dead,
She that was ever fair and never proud,
Whoreson dog! I give him satisfaction?
What, of death too,
it over: by the Lord, and I do not, I am a villain:
Their fiery torcher his diurnal ring,
With hey, ho,  and c.
Your praise is come too swiftly home before you.
We come to use our hands and not our tongues.
And that we have a curse in having her:
Fie, fie, fie!
A dangerous rhyme, master, against the reason of
I have this twelvemonth been her bedfellow.
Every wise man's son doth know.
Like beasts which you shun beastly, and may save,
Enter at one door PERICLES talking with CLEON; all  the train with them. Enter at another door a  Gentleman, with a letter to PERICLES; PERICLES  shows the letter to CLEON; gives the Messenger a  reward, and knights him. Exit PERICLES at one door, and CLEON at another
Indeed we heard how near his death he was
desires, and fairies will not pinse you.
When she was young you woo'd her; now in age
Divided in their dire division,
he esteems himself happy that he hath fallen into
I did; I saw him dead,
but I am not to say it is a sea, for it is now the
Here is your hand and seal for what I did.
poor king her father.
A twist of rotten silk, never admitting
Not to the beast that would usurp their den.
SCENE I. A sea-port in Sicilia.
and thy perfume, they mocked thee for too much
of our way, I say.
And other of such vinegar aspect
For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
Besides, the lottery of my destiny
If this be magic, let it be an art
Is she kind as she is fair?
As thou hast shown it flinty by thy deeds,
not forgot upon the face of the earth, then am I a
Never to hope again.
Can we outrun the heavens? good Margaret, stay.
attributes?
I knew he was not in his perfect wits.
But Margaret, that is daughter to a king?
Is he here, say you? 'tis more than I know, I'll
Although the kite soar with unbloodied beak?
As thou my sometime daughter.
Farewell, our brother.
Let me have time and counsel for my cause:
Caesar, thou art revenged,
Thus are my blossoms blasted in the bud
's are sophisticated! Thou art the thing itself:
And make your channel his? If he have power
O true apothecary!
And well said too; for who shall go about
Exit Servant
street about you, sir, but I marked him not; and yet
Enter a Messenger
Well, what is it? is it within reason and compass?
O Douglas, hadst thou fought at Holmedon thus,
It is our safety, and we must embrace
It is too heavy for so light a tune.
Treason! foul treason! Villain! traitor! slave!
Marry. God forbid!
Thy overflow of good converts to bad,
Tears then for babes; blows and revenge for me
return again to Venice.
Did warrant me was likely.
I fear our happiness is at the highest.
If so your heart were touch'd with that remorse
Unless my sins abuse my divination--
Untainted, unexamined, free, at liberty
Allows itself to any thing.
And put it in his pocket!
Be simple answerer, for we know the truth.
Strive to speak big and clap their female joints
To prove him false that says I love thee not.
Sweet Hero! She is wronged, she is slandered, she is undone.
This siren, that will charm Rome's Saturnine,
Sweet Portia,
The weird sisters, hand in hand,
Is there no pity sitting in the clouds,
Dost thou teach pardon pardon to destroy?
hobby-horses must not hear.
No, by the holy rood, thou know'st it well,
It's nine o'clock.
You were best to go to bed and dream again,
I know a wench of excellent discourse,
This is no witness for Lord Angelo.
His majesty bids you welcome. Make
you sing prick-song, keeps time, distance, and
You have been always called a merciful man, partner.
By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I
If ever you have spent time worse ere now;
By being peevish? I tell thee what, Antonio--
Opens the gate
strike at me, that your arrow hath glanced.
Whiles we shut the gates
I would be so triumphant as I am?
Poor queen! how love to me and to her son
How! will she none? doth she not give us thanks?
By this same coxcomb that we have i' the wind,
With poisonous spite and envy.
Yes, by Saint Anne, and ginger shall be hot i' the
chambers; search, seek, find out: I'll warrant
He can command, lets it straight feel the spur;
sufferance. I see you are obsequious in your love,
He met the night-mare, and her nine-fold;
God's benison go with you; and with those
be made parchment? that parchment, being scribbled
I an itching palm!
O, if thou wert the noblest of thy strain,
I will make proof of thine.
I crave the benefit of law of arms.
never had any; or if he had, he had sworn it away
burying-place to all that do dwell in this house,
Bed, chamber, Pandar to provide this gear!
doer of this, and he is to be thanked.
Flourish. Exeunt KING RICHARD II, QUEEN, DUKE OF AUMERLE, BUSHY, GREEN, and BAGOT
That they have caught the king: and who knows yet
Either for such men or such business.
Exit
And have thee reverenced like a blessed saint:
First, a very excellent good-conceited thing;
O, sir, you had then left unseen a wonderful piece
But let's about it.
For, bear ourselves as even as we can,
Made scruple of his praise; and wager'd with him
great revenue! heaven bless thee from a tutor, and
Where'er it be, in heaven or in earth.
I'll believe both;
And lands restored again be freely granted:
himself for joy of his found daughter, as if that
I am commanded home. Get you away;
That shake us nightly: better be with the dead,
He that flies so will ne'er return again.
Indeed!
Mine honour's ensigns humbled at thy feet.
And thank your lordship. By your leave, sweet ladies:
is a year and a quarter old, come Philip and Jacob:
Exit
And he the sun, for them to reverence;
Who thou wilt: and if thou please,
No, by my life.
ACT IV
If that his head have ear in music,--doubtless
As mountain winds: but then exactly do
So be sure will Rosalind.
On the opposer.
Drop-heir that killed lusty Pudding, and Master
She's impudent, my lord,
sleep, and a hangman to help him to bed, I think he
The folded meaning of your words' deceit.
Good night to your redress! Is the duke gone?
That you would have me seek into myself
O, that exceeds, they say.
More in their officer than person: Sossius,
Come, we are fellows and friends: he was ever too
A great perturbation in nature, to receive at once
had not taken yourself with the manner.
No longer for my flatterer: he is drown'd
Agree to any covenants, and procure
Prepare, madam, prepare!
That turn'd your wit the seamy side without,
I buy a thousand pound a year: I buy a rope.
To rot itself with motion.
till he find it stopping a bung-hole?
O, beat away the busy meddling fiend
And either [         ] the devil, or throw him out
Call not me slanderer; thou and thine usurp
What should I do? I confess it is my shame to be so
question him yourself.
Which, like a bourn, a pale, a shore, confines
That lies enclosed in this trunk which you
certain of it; and when I cannot live any longer, I
scarce a maid westward but she sings it; 'tis in
Seeks to take off by treason's knife.
And, will they take the offer of our grace,
Hath broke his staff, resign'd his stewardship,
When gold and silver becks me to come on.
This hath been
Thou dost me yet but little hurt; thou wilt anon, I
I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke,
The Earl of Wiltshire hath the realm in farm.
Shall I go win my daughter to thy will?
Thy oath remember; thou hast sworn to do't:
O' Thursday let it be: o' Thursday, tell her,
afraid he would prove the better counterfeit.
As any man in Illyria, whatsoever he be, under the
That my poor mistress, moved therewithal,
'nointed over with honey, set on the head of a
For well you know we of the offering side
The traces of the smallest spider's web,
That so he might recover what was lost.
And pluck nights from me, but not lend a morrow;
That virtuous Lady Bona, thy fair sister,
'Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or
My lord,
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all;
will not be seen; or if she be, it's four to one
What's worse than murderer, that I may name it?
For seeing him I see my life in death.
Our sighs and they shall lodge the summer corn,
I cannot do it better than in gyves,
To FLAVIUS
The raven chides blackness.
Enter GEORGE BEVIS and JOHN HOLLAND
Cannot pick out five such, take each one in his vein.
Poor knave, I blame thee not; thou art o'er-watch'd.
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death,
Lead me.
hours since, and he was ever precise in
Nay, tell me if you speak in jest or no.
what they do.
and say 'Father, as it please you.' But yet for all
Notable pirate! thou salt-water thief!
Gentlemen, will you go muster men?
Good; and what of him?
Find him, and bring him hither.
You mistake; the musician likes me not.
to a wrangling knave, as the nun's lip to the
Who is my principal?
What, art thou come? On, gentlemen; away!
The motion's good indeed and be it so,
Her eye, and tell me for what dull part in't
Knocks
Father, to arms!
And yet we hear no tidings from the king;
give thee none.
But my intents are fix'd and will not leave me.
Your highness came to England, so will I
being proud?
Exeunt ANTONIO and PANTHINO
We were not born to sue, but to command;
To SUFFOLK
From every tree lop, bark, and part o' the timber;
Besides this treasure for a fee,
Good mother, be content; it is no more
Montjoy.
Exit
Ay, now begins a second storm to rise;
Tell me whereon the likelihood depends.
Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy:
But that his beard grew thin and hungerly
Be bold to tell you that I am your son;
What ho! Horatio!
No, not the hangman's axe, bear half the keenness
To God, the widow's champion and defence.
A league from Epidamnum had we sail'd,
RICHARD
O, I am slain! My lord, you have one eye left
Be so much more the man. Nor time nor place
Exeunt severally
Thanks, fairest lady.
They are all forth. Well, I will walk myself
You sad Andronici, have done with woes:
never recover.
ACT V
And yet, good faith, I wish'd myself a man,
Brought them to be lamented. Our army shall
seven dozen of Scots at a breakfast, washes his
Your presence needs must puzzle Antony;
Witness the loving kiss I give the fruit.
souls out of one weaver? shall we do that?
thus strong,
Not till he hears how Antony is touch'd
Amaze the welkin with your broken staves!
More noble than that runagate to your bed,
That now she is become as black as I.
Not like the fruit of such a goodly tree.
Why so am I; we still have slept together,
Reigns that which would be fear'd: 'tis much he dares;
Say thy prayers, and farewell.
Italian master, Julio Romano, who, had he himself
Watch'd for your voices; for Your voices bear
To be more fresh, reviving. She is fool'd
To whom I will retail my conquest won,
Now is a time to storm; why art thou still?
No, my good lord; I am the very man,--
Much business appertaining.
'Through, in pure truth, it was corrupt and naught,
O most lame and impotent conclusion! Do not learn
themselves in their own straps.
The lord protector lost it, and not I:
Ascend, fair queen, Pantheon. Lords, accompany
Now, by this hand, I gave it to a youth,
good manners; if thou never sawest good manners,
And like an eagle o'er his aery towers,
As stout and proud as he were lord of all,
Well, I'll set you forth.
SCENE I. A room in Lucullus' house.
'Tis here!
Well, go to, go to.
How now, mistress!
And fall into our rustic revelry.
O Clifford, how thy words revive my heart!
Tempests are kind and salt waves fresh in love.
And here the smug and silver Trent shall run
I wait upon his pleasure. Come, Sir Thurio,
And every tongue brings in a several tale,
Is not the Lady Constance in this troop?
With all bound humbleness.
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come;
Lord hastings was to her for his delivery?
Thrice-noble Suffolk, 'tis resolutely spoke.
The law, with all his might to enforce it on,
Become a churchman better than ambition:
No care, no stop! so senseless of expense,
limb or joint, shall pass Pompey the Great; the
Who of my people hold him in delay?
As thou shalt reign but by their sufferance.
Custom hath made it in him a property of easiness.
In the seat royal of this famous isle?
This is the news: he fishes, drinks, and wastes
palsies, raw eyes, dirt-rotten livers, wheezing
Appals our numbers: haste we, Diomed,
The princely blood flows in his cheek, he sweats,
He's sentenced; 'tis too late.
What is the matter, my lord?
From him the native and true challenger.
He dreamt to-night the boar had razed his helm:
We can: my royal liege,
condemn it as an improbable fiction.
Let your breath cool yourself, telling your haste.
All days of glory, joy and happiness.
Nor with thy sweets comfort his ravenous sense;
which, my instruction shall serve to naturalize
They draw
Give her an hundred marks. I'll to the queen.
For fear they die before their pardon come.
He that sweetest rose will find
My will is something sorted with his wish.
Enter LYSIMACHUS
And then I'll bring thee to the present business
Being a murderer, though he were my brother.
Much heat and him. I'll sconce me even here.
Twice for one step I'll groan, the way being short,
Pray, draw near.
I saw their weapons drawn: there was a noise,
attempted? Love is a familiar; Love is a devil:
I wrote to you
when thou gavest thy golden one away. If I speak
There thou speak'st reason: nay, I will do so.
Whisper her ear and tell her, I and Ursula
What shrill-voiced suppliant makes this eager cry?
Brothers, help to convey her hence away,
Hostility and civil tumult reigns
For I'll refer me to all things of sense,
I shall.
O misery!
much like a cheese; consumes itself to the very
I beseech your majesty, make up,
Could not all hell afford you such a devil?
Give you good morrow, sir.
And teach your ears to list me with more heed.
I am as woful as Virginius was,
Enter, from opposite sides, a Fairy, and PUCK
You spy! what do you spy? Come, give me an
Spake you of Caesar? How! the non-pareil!
And fall of many kings. But fear not yet
I grant it, for thine own, whate'er it be.
thy smiles become thee well; therefore in my
Whom these things cannot blemish,--yet must Antony
Mark him; note him. O brave Troilus! Look well upon
Be not enshelter'd and embay'd, they are drown'd:
odd quirks and remnants of wit broken on me,
Madam, I heard her speak; she is low-voiced.
Which puts some of us in distemper, but
the very yea and the no is, the French doctor, my
Solicit Henry with her wondrous praise:
As will displease you. My Lord Northumberland,
Enter a Herald with a proclamation; People following
It must be granted I am Duke of Lancaster.
Tiber in't; said to be something imperfect in
God mend all!
At home, upon my brother's guard, even there,
Fear you the boar, and go so unprovided?
The lioness had torn some flesh away,
By your leave; I cry you mercy: give your worship
Yet none does know, but you, how she came dead,
impediment to the contrary, to be the trumpet of his
O, send some succor to the distress'd lord!
the rector of the place.
God be wi' you, my lord! we came but to tell you
And, like the haggard, cheque at every feather
he gave unto his steward a mighty sum.
Shall be crown'd in Brutus.
What?
their ears,
Two yards, and more.
Exit
As blanks, benevolences, and I wot not what:
Is't possible?
The word, 'Me pompae provexit apex.'
It were a grief, so brief to part with thee: Farewell.
behavedst thyself as if thou hadst been in thine own
A poor, infirm, weak, and despised old man:
From the report that goes upon your goodness;
hence to wait; I beseech you, follow straight.
That by direct or indirect attempts
Your royal father 's murder'd.
That he does weigh too light: my greatest grief.
The handkerchief!
I,' says she, 'that have so oft encountered him
If to come hither you have measured miles,
After you first forswore it on the mart:
If I owe you any thing, I will pay you in cudgels:
I am possess'd with an adulterate blot;
Forage in blood of French nobility.
The hearing of my wife with your approach;
condition of a man!
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
No; it is stopp'd with other flattering sounds,
an account of her life to a clod of wayward marl?
These evils thou repeat'st upon thyself
It shall go hard if Cambio go without her.
A very forward March-chick! How came you to this?
Wilt thou be gone? it is not yet near day:
Unless he seek to thrust you out perforce.
With comforting repose, and not for us
Return, good Catesby, to thy lord again;
chamber window, where we play, open, and the moon
Which shall to all our nights and days to come
And hath been from his youth: pray you, keep seat;
sovereign mistress of effects, throws a more safer
O Caesar,--
As it may lose some colour.
Thou art my friend, that know'st my tongue so well.
ACT V
I promise you, but for your company,
Come, let's return again, and suffice ourselves with
Has Ventidius and Lucullus denied him?
A knight of Sparta, my renowned father;
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltimand,
A poor unfortunate beggar.
What you have underta'en to do in's absence.
For that I saw the tyrant's power a-foot:
house. Shall we thither and with our company piece
Which, being writ to me, shall be deliver'd
Will come to know his destiny:
not who knew it
to my fingers, and there is salmons in both. If you
Sir, even now
Why dost thou so oppress me with thine eye?
To me she speaks; she moves me for her theme:
And you, my noble and well-warranted cousin,
And Henry put apart, the next for me.
Music and a song: 'Black spirits,'  and c
Half my love with him, half my care and duty:
Shall I be your playfellow?
last company: I am very glad to see you: even a
What revels are in hand? Is there no play,
Between our Ilium and where she resides,
extremity of the one, it must needs be.
If she be up, I'll speak with her; if not,
Wilt thou not hide the trespass of thine own?
To-day to marry with my brother's daughter?
And to my fortunes and the people's favor
Exeunt DULL and JAQUENETTA
My fortunes were more able to relieve her;
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
When once he was mature for man,
Enter DUKE ORSINO, VIOLA, CURIO, and Lords
For Mowbray and myself are like two men
He's worth more sorrow,
Swore him assistance and perform'd it too.
If she deny to wed, I'll crave the day
I thank you. How does Lieutenant Cassio?
our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
SCENE II. The same. Garden of JULIA's house.
I leave him to your hand. What muffled fellow's that?
I would rather have one of your father's getting.
Since thou hast far to go, bear not along
Than that which maiden modesty doth warrant,
If that thy bent of love be honourable,
Exeunt Servants
For ever knit.
He says, for Brutus' sake,
Sworn to us in your younger enterprise.
And thou, Lord Bourbon, our high admiral,
Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
Enter'd my house. Antonio, you are welcome;
There greet in silence, as the dead are wont,
I thought thy heart had been wounded with the claws
And never live but true unto his liege!
If not with vantage, as Demetrius';
Have suffer'd wrong, go keep us company,
Hail, Rome, victorious in thy mourning weeds!
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared him
[To KING RICHARD III]
With wrinkled brows, with nods, with rolling eyes.
the thanksgiving before meat, do relish the petition
Thou that givest whores indulgences to sin:
Good angels keep it from us!
He? alas, he is poor; he hath nothing.
Come hither, come hither, come hither:
A lustre to it.
Hautboys and torches. Enter a Sewer, and divers  Servants with dishes and service, and pass over the stage. Then enter MACBETH
What is betid to Cloten; but remain
Tongue-tied, our queen?
That nice-preserved honesty of yours.
None, I protest: but I'll give you a pottle of
I know not, sweet: I found it in my chamber.
Vouchsafe me a word; it does concern you near.
And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools,
though we willingly consented to his banishment, yet
A mark! O, mark but that mark! A mark, says my lady!
friend of mine come to town tells me there is three
That you stand forfeit, being those that sue?
Is not your name, sir, call'd Antipholus?
In hot digestion of this cormorant war--
Among nine bad if one be good,
'For I must bear thee to a trusty Goth;
Nor do I think the man of safe discretion
And cordial to me, have I not found it
Anne Bullen! No; I'll no Anne Bullens for him:
To yield the ghost: but still the envious flood
salt water.
Madam, I would not wish a better father.
Which is his house, beseech you?
Bringing rebellion broached on his sword,
Do not doubt that; before Emilia here
Ambitious churchman, leave to afflict my heart:
have discredited your travel.
Fool, fool! thou whet'st a knife to kill thyself.
A borrow'd title hast thou bought too dear:
And I'll be sworn 'tis true: travellers ne'er did
Lord of my life, commander of my thoughts,
Enter RODERIGO
be Launcelot, thou art mine own flesh and blood.
Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, horsed
Thy master dies thy scholar: to do thus
Which I mistrusted not. Farewell, therefore, Hero!
Yet keeps his book uncross'd: no life to ours.
More than to us
cry 'The devil!'
Is, to determine of the coronation.
If there be any pody in the house, and in the
And my poor soldiers tell me, yet ere night
I am your free dependant.
To quit this horrid act.
And now to Paris, in this conquering vein:
Thou'rt poison to my blood.
And fame in time to come canonize us;
make shift to go without him.
Look what I have.
To drown me in thy sister's flood of tears:
Shake off their sterile curse.
Time, thou anticipatest my dread exploits:
To hear themselves remember'd.
Where is the queen?
Cover your heads and mock not flesh and blood
[Kneeling]  Pardon, my lord, for me and for my tidings.
but looked big and spit at him, he'ld have run.
Or unto death, to do my country good.
I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
Listen to me, and if you speak me fair,
Straining harsh discords and unpleasing sharps.
Thorough flood, thorough fire,
till I do come to London, where we will have the
Saint George, that swinged the dragon, and e'er since
corrupt him to revolt.' What say you to this? what
Enter a Citizen
My brain I'll prove the female to my soul,
Who look'd full gently on his warlike queen,
And as a suitor will I give him this.
To use one language in each several clime
Search the market narrowly; Mytilene is full of
To see these honours in possession.
Rot half a grain a day! he lies to the heart:
But Warwick's king is Edward's prisoner:
Be your tears wet? yes, 'faith. I pray, weep not:
Sir, I was an inward of his. A shy fellow was the
Fear not my truth: the moral of my wit
You shall be mistress, and command him wholly.
Shall draw this brief into as huge a volume.
Thy tears would wash this cold congealed blood
'Twill be two days ere I shall see you, so
'Nearest his heart:' those are the very words.
Since I have ever follow'd thee with hate,
Join'd with a masker and a reveller!
The rascal people, thirsting after prey,
So stumblest on my counsel?
Yes, I do know him well, and common speech
towards our wives are a yoke of his discarded men;
Good king, great king, and yet not greatly good,
A fine woman! a fair woman! a sweet woman!
Nay, then he should be blind; and, being blind
That of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker:
Exeunt
Yet never know how that desert should be.
An inviting eye; and yet methinks right modest.
Bon jour, Monsieur Le Beau: what's the news?
Of greatest port, have all persuaded with him;
Hail, gentle sir.
A spirit I am indeed;
heart good. Yonder comes Paris, yonder comes Paris.
Hark, they roar!
Smile heaven upon this fair conjunction,
Equal with wondering: what of her ensues
O the gods!
O, is that all? What will you give me now
Exit an Officer
Why, do not your courtier's hands sweat? and is not
She had; and would incense me
Of Nature's gifts thou mayst with lilies boast,
To know my deed, 'twere best not know myself.
He little cares for and a daughter who
Jewel of children, seen this hour, he had pair'd
What manner of man?
Of thine own cause.
Scornful Lysander! true, he hath my love,
A friend.
her own nest.
A terrible and unavoided danger:
Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth! beware Macduff;
Here in the tent.
Wilt thou reach stars, because they shine on thee?
O, if thou teach me to believe this sorrow,
[Aside to DONALBAIN]  Why do we hold our tongues,
me: the malignancy of my fate might perhaps
At what hour to-morrow
Be clamorous and leap all civil bounds
Stop in your wind, sir: tell me this, I pray:
Sir, he is within; and I would I could do a good
In an odd angle of the isle and sitting,
But find supply immediate. Get you gone:
And you three shall be strangled on the gallows.
Because they have been still mine enemies:
Mistress, it is: sweet lady, entertain him
And not a hair upon a soldier's head
Be to me and every man that dares not fight!
My blood, my want of strength, my sick heart shows.
Bedford, if thou be slack, I'll fight it out.
For your claim, fair sister,
And rail upon the hostess of the house;
I like not fair terms and a villain's mind.
My lord, I claim your gift, my due by promise,
'Whatsoever you may hear to the contrary, let
thing, as boys and women are for the most part
To take the basest and most poorest shape
That you on my behalf would pluck a flower.
A cry of women within
Romeo slew him, he slew Mercutio;
Thou art not for the fashion of these times,
Of your best graces in your mind; the which
Sir, I am too old to learn:
You shall this twelvemonth term from day to day
To eat us hungerly, and when they are full,
like a wood woman! Well, I kiss her; why, there
You know, sometimes he walks four hours together
For, having such a blessing in his lady,
Take away the conqueror, take away Alisander.
You shall, my lord.
which I would fain call master.
And that were much he should; for he is given
'Tis that they seek, and they in seeking that
Then learn this of me: to have, is to have; for it
But virtue, as it never will be moved,
By a beloved prince, there doth appear
Is full accomplish'd; for the Roman eagle,
but the word 'noddy' for my pains.
This comes too near the praising of myself;
Finely put on!
could drive her then from the ward of her purity,
Were in your love a whip to me; my stay
I am the man: if it be so, as 'tis,
Unarm'd, and unresolved to beat them back:
A city on the inconstant billows dancing;
But hear you.
He plough'd her, and she cropp'd.
To mount aloft with thy imperial mistress,
No, no, they would not.
What say you to a letter from your friends
That ever blotted paper! Gentle lady,
The kinder we, to give them thanks for nothing.
Prest for this blow. The unborn event
Tyre, I now look from thee then, and to Tarsus
Well, bury him, and bury me the next.
long spoon.
When I have show'd the unfitness,--
O, by whom?
As signal that thou hear'st something approach.
night: though you are a fool and a knave, you shall
Best to preserve it: if I lose mine honour,
If e'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love,
Good Pandarus, how now, Pandarus!
Exeunt all except TROILUS and ULYSSES
wit! whither wander you?
Curster than she? why, 'tis impossible.
You'ld be king o' the isle, sirrah?
A horse whereon the governor doth ride,
This foul Egyptian hath betrayed me:
Any thing.
A sailor's wife had chestnuts in her lap,
As TROILUS is going out, enter, from the other side, PANDARUS
Have I not pawn'd to you my majesty?
Alas, poor chin! many a wart is richer.
No, no; O Lord, sir, no.
against Benedick.
If thou be pleased with this my sudden choice,
that I love passing well.
Is queen of us, of ours, and our fair France:
Cry mercy, lords and watchful gentlemen,
And I will die a hundred thousand deaths
Immediate sentence then and sequent death
So in the earth, to this day is not known:
The other half in use, to render it,
Enter HAMLET
Have with you. Fare you well.
That I myself have done unto myself?
Namely, to Hastings, Derby, Buckingham;
Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin
I have read three hours then: mine eyes are weak:
The thoughts of people: she told her, while
Who gave thee this letter?
True! O God!
To those fresh morning drops upon the rose,
First note that he is near you in descent,
He makes for England, there to claim the crown.
We come to speak with him; and you shall not sin,
Of greater sums than I have promised.
Shall be call'd queen, but princess dowager
Thou, Richard, shalt to the Duke of Norfolk,
This night englutted! Who is not Timon's?
that is a prisoner nine years old.
interlude before the duke and the duchess, on his
That it will glimmer through a blind man's eye.
What, what, what!
Can lack persuasion? Do not tempt my misery,
Enter CROMWELL, and stands amazed
And be not easily won to our request:
And she will speak most bitterly and strange.
How much, methinks, I could despise this man,
Of stern injustice and confused wrong.
By my troth, he'll yield the crow a pudding one of
husband, if thou be so shrewd of thy tongue.
another encounter, which lames report to follow it
It was not given me, nor I did not buy it.
lecherous. Tut, I should have been that I am,
Madam, what makes you in this sudden change?
Well, if you be a king crown'd with content,
What business, lord, so early?
How now, what news with you?
I did not think you could have been so angry.
With gentle travail, to the gladding of
there is two or three lords and ladies more married:
desires to speak with you.
How now, brother! Where is my cousin, your son?
words plain, 'Sirrah, knock me here, rap me here,
Something hath been amiss--a noble nature
All swoln and ulcerous, pitiful to the eye,
scratched.
Enter PAULINA, a Gentleman, and Attendants
one of these days.
As willingly do I the same resign
Ay, so I say.
No longer Celia, but Aliena.
Ready.
To bear him to my bower in fairy land.
Yet in some sort they are better than the tribunes,
painted also with a wheel, to signify to you, which
I came from Corinth, my most gracious lord,--
Suits not in native colours with the truth;
On my particular. Prepared I was not
Enter IDEN
thine own work? wilt thou whip thine own faults in
Marry, God forbid! the boy was the very staff of my
To help thee curse that poisonous bunchback'd toad.
Attracts the same for aidance 'gainst the enemy;
This visitation shows it.
On one part and on the other? Take it, God,
Is yet fresh in their grief.
And, ten to one, you'll meet him in the Tower.
Ay, with a heart as willing
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
And therefore, if you say no more than this,
To expel sickness, but prolong his hour!
This queen will live: nature awakes; a warmth
O excellent! I love long life better than figs.
ANTIPHOLUS
Talkers are no good doers: be assured
To make him worthy whose offence subdues him
Let me speak proudly: tell the constable
When man's worst sin is, he does too much good!
With an importing visage; and she told me,
as it were, a dog at all things. If I had not had
Till we serve you; but when you have our roses,
like a malecontent; to relish a love-song, like a
Enter a Servant
The deeds of mercy. I have spoke thus much
As firmly as I hope for fertile England.
As it shall follow in my correction: and God defend
What proclamation, man?
As if increase of appetite had grown
But boldly stand and front him to his face.
With such things else of quality and respect
And when he says he is, say that he dreams,
No contraries hold more antipathy
For what thou hast not, still thou strivest to get,
What a vice were it in Ajax now,--
Ere't be disburden'd with a liberal tongue.
be, give it me, for I am slow of study.
That you will clear yourself from all suspect:
Not in the legions
Affront his eye.
Nay, you need not fear us, Lorenzo: Launcelot and I
Exeunt Attendants
Hail, sir! my lord, lend ear.
But not till I am dead. I'll say thou'st gold:
Ha! am I king? 'tis so: but Edward lives.
What, wouldst thou have me prove myself a bastard?
Though sometimes you do blench from this to that,
It were enough to fright the realm of France:
great abatement of kindness appears as well in the
A lady like me, with a love even such,
For that's an article within our law,
I, as I may--that which I would I cannot,--
With treacherous crowns; and three corrupted men,
Quicken with kissing: had my lips that power,
In beastly sort, dragg'd through the shameful field.
Much is your sorrow; mine ten times so much.
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
sir? not I, sir. God be wi' you, good Sir Topas.
Within the limits of yon lime and stone:
And never suffers matter of the world
And feast and banquet in the open streets,
have them this morning examined before your worship.
In manner and form following, sir; all those three:
Hearty thanks:
Enter VALENTINE and SPEED
Then mark the inducement. Thus it came; give heed to't:
I never did repent for doing good,
Though my estate be fallen, I was well born,
your clowns speak no more than is set down for them;
To think, when thou shalt be disedged by her
me like thieves of mercy: but they knew what they
Exit Attendant
Let him to field; Troilus, alas! hath none.
Is niece to England: look upon the years
his valour: what is his honesty?
O ceremony, show me but thy worth!
Why, how now, uncle Gloucester!
Your statue spouting blood in many pipes,
Has he had knowledge of it?
a sovereign's sovereign to ride on; and for the
A most wicked Sir Oliver, Audrey, a most vile
As good cause as one would desire; therefore weep.
SCENE II. Field of battle between the British and Roman camps.
ran away upon instinct, you will not touch the true
So, this was well ask'd,'twas so well perform'd.
That so I may, by this device, at least
In faith,
Why, how now, general! no more of that.
Very well.
[To BERTRAM]  Use a more spacious ceremony to the
Romeo that kill'd him, he is banished.
Myself, a prince by fortune of my birth,
Exit KING HENRY VIII, frowning upon CARDINAL WOLSEY: the Nobles throng after him, smiling and whispering
Too much hair there, but in a semicircle
Come, shall we hear this music?
Indeed, I have been merrier.
shalt have five thousand welcomes. But, sirrah, how
Enter a Messenger
Then with Scotland first begin:'
It might have since been answer'd in repaying
he fell. When he came to himself again, he said,
Upon the talk of the poisoning?
difference of all complexions. What! do you stop your ears?
Before I make reply to aught you say.
No, it is Casca; one incorporate
Time enough to go to bed with a candle, I warrant
Through Athens' gates have we devised to steal.
If it prove so, I will be gone the sooner.
There is a remedy, approved, set down,
To these two princes, if you marry them.
When oil and fire, too strong for reason's force,
Come on, Lord Hastings, will you go with me?
I thank thee: wait on me home, I'll make sport with thee:
And go, Sir Paris; every one prepare
Well, breathe awhile, and then to it again: and
I swear, I scorn the term; Nor shall my Nell keep lodgers.
shifted out of thy tale into telling me of the fashion?
They know not how their wits to wear,
[Within]  Give us a light there, ho!
Take thy fair hour, Laertes; time be thine,
The cause were known to them it most concerns;
ones; but they are most of them means and bases; but
Then yield, my lords; and here conclude with me
Without her, follows to this land and me,
The Count Melun, a noble lord of France,
How close 'tis caulk'd and bitumed!
How this lord is follow'd!
to think on't. What says she there?
To give his censure: these are no women's matters.
Alarum as in battle. Enter, from opposite sides, MARCIUS and AUFIDIUS
How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world,
Consume your blood with sorrowing: you have
Is it your trick to make me ope the door,
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
To undertake the death of all the world,
And one whom much I honour.
KING HENRY VIII kisses the child
Deserve we no more reverence?
How many actions most ridiculous
To Edmund Langley, Edward the Third's fifth son.
'Tis beauty that doth oft make women proud;
A saucy roughness, and constrains the garb
Come, bring in all together.
And praise myself for charity.
Or look upon our Romans, whose remembrance
fortune. If you will watch his going thence, which
The fox barks not when he would steal the lamb.
And so, without more circumstance at all,
twelvemonth to a crooked-pated, old, cuckoldly ram,
smallest article of it, neither in time, matter, or
That which combined us was most great, and let not
Which scarcely keeps thee warm. But, for true need,--
Would make a volume of enticing lines,
One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
That he is promised to be wived
you please, that I can do strange things: I have,
No, precious creature;
O, these encounterers, so glib of tongue,
What mean you?
This knight, no less for bounty bound to us
All that I have to say, is, to tell you that the
That you have many enemies, that know not
The gods have well prevented it, and Rome
some, he is in Rome: but where is he, think you?
Which doth amount to three odd ducats more
At land, indeed,
No worse than I, upon some agreement
Come, I have found you out a stand most fit,
He will not wake.
Than you may call to comfort you, for I
That oft in field, with targe and shield, did make
nobody: is there any harm in 'the heavier for a
The County Paris hath set up his rest,
All seeing heaven, what a world is this!
I give heaven thanks I was not like to thee!
brisk awhile, and the longer liver take all.
I have then sinned against his experience and
I have been in many; but such a night as this,
Exeunt, bearing the body of CORIOLANUS. A dead march sounded
strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?
To you our swords have leaden points, Mark Antony:
Sends word of all that haps in Tyre:
It is even so.
breaks yonder?
In prenzie guards! Dost thou think, Claudio?
By sea, by sea.
Because not there: this woman's answer sorts,
'Some are born great,'--
bakers' wives, and they have made bolters of them.
Be living and be here?
To shame the zeal of my petition to thee
Ay, that's the theme.
No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon
This sudden execution of my will.
With humble suit: no, rather let my head
So I would not he should do me, my lord, lest I
Die and be damn'd! and figo for thy friendship!
You met him half in heaven: my vows and prayers
deities be despised. Lend to each man enough, that
The current that with gentle murmur glides,
Good morr ow, lords:
to-day at bowls I'll win to-night of him. Come, go.
Consider, sir, the chance of war: the day
Not a false gallop.
To wind about my love with circumstance;
Stabs RODERIGO
Nay, good, be patient.
You must know,
There's no art
The blood I drop is rather physical
Where Cressid lay that night.
My ships come home a month before the day.
Lay'st thou thy leaden mace upon my boy,
That would I learn of you,
Now follow, if thou darest, to try whose right,
The sealing-day betwixt my love and me,
And that no woman has; nor never none
[Aside]  I know not what to say; my title's weak.--
Hail to you, provost! so I think you are.
Than is the full-wing'd eagle. O, this life
Do bravely, horse! for wot'st thou whom thou movest?
As hath been belch'd on by infected lungs.
But here comes Thurio: now must we to her window,
Valiant Lord Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury,
And, for our coffers, with too great a court
Then may I set the world on wheels, when she can
Sings
will is, it should be so returned: if it be worth
I know it, uncle, and oppose not myself
Do so, good Messala.
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me:
Therefore at last I firmly am resolved
I may spur on my journey.
And who is your deer?
My father's spirit in arms! all is not well;
head and a capon; the which if I do not carve most
Gentle spectators, that I now may be
But welcome, sweet Clarence; my daughter shall be thine.
That from me was Posthumus ript,
Shalt feel our justice, in whose easiest passage
Come, Kate, and wash, and welcome heartily.
For that I was his father Edward's son;
Then lay me forth: although unqueen'd, yet like
I thank you, madam, that you tender her.
His war for Britain.
Lo, citizens, he says he is content:
A pattern to all princes living with her,
And in that paste let their vile heads be baked.
Come on, I say; and first begin with her.
performer, I would have that drum or another, or
What, think You we are Turks or infidels?
Inclining to them both: were my wife's liver
Not to come off, in his displeasure.
Like men born to renown by life or death.
Holding a trencher, jesting merrily?
Enter Hostess
And, when he thinks, good easy man, full surely
Under my feet I stamp thy cardinal's hat:
And ne'er be weary. Alcibiades,
If old sir Robert did beget us both
I came this way so happily: the king
My lords, what to your wisdoms seemeth best,
southerly I know a hawk from a handsaw.
As of a father: for let the world take note,
And from their watery empire recollect
A portly sail of ships make hitherward.
And seal'd between us.
And he will fill thy wishes to the brim
cudgel, and twenty pounds of money, which must be
Humbly I thank your lordship: never may
Because in choice he is so oft beguiled.
renowned brother, in his love toward her ever most
You break into some merry passion
I would have been a breakfast to the beast,
And from the mart he's somewhere gone to dinner.
Happily, amen!
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers;
The church's prayers made him so prosperous.
His country's bowels out. And to poor we
Hath heard of great Augustus: Caius Lucius
Why, I pray you?
Ay; and as idle as she may hang together, for want
Exeunt all but MACBETH and LADY MACBETH
Enter a Gentleman
planted and placed and possessed by my master Don
your leek? there is not enough leek to swear by.
No, lady.
And say, 'Lo, there is mad Petruchio's wife,
For present comfort and for future good,
What, am I poor of late?
plague upon such backing! give me them that will
Haste thee, for thy life.
And find out murderers in their guilty caves:
Come, Antony, and young Octavius, come,
You, Roderigo! come, sir, I am for you.
Made by some other deity than nature,
I was; but I do find more pain in banishment
Refuse not, mighty lord, this proffer'd love.
And did he send you both these letters at an instant?
Whose execution takes your enemy off,
Of civil wounds plough'd up with neighbours' sword;
do you hear me, and let this count kill me. I have
Enter ISABELLA and LUCIO
Must have a stop. O, I could prophesy,
Do smilingly revolt; and who resist
What! did my brother Henry spend his youth,
Here.
Does whet his anger to him.
Which makes thee thus presumptuous and proud,
SCENE I. DUKE ORSINO's palace.
Have you importuned him by any means?
To tell me how he takes it. Fare you well:
Regent of love-rhymes, lord of folded arms,
Say he is sick.
That labour on the bosom of this sphere
When no man was his own.
But, that I'll give my voice on Richard's side,
O'er whom both sovereign power and father's voice
Why, 'twas a commandment to command the captain and
The leaf of eglantine, whom not to slander,
avouches the shepherd's son; who has not only his
Behold this pattern of thy butcheries.
Whose present courage may beat down our foes,
Even like the deed that's done. On Tuesday last,
Now, Signior Petruchio, how speed you with my daughter?
Which his hell-govern'd arm hath butchered!
Within me is a hell; and there the poison
To find persistive constancy in men:
flesh ye; come on, young master.
Why, then the world and all that's in't is nothing;
I thank thee, gentle Percy; and be sure
Of a strange fever. Upon his mere request,
O that I served that lady
Stay, then; I'll go alone. Fear comes upon me:
Faith, none, but Humphrey Hour, that call'd
Therein behold themselves: I say again,
Hercules; the pedant, Judas Maccabaeus: And if
Herod of Jewry; Mithridates, king
Is made my gaoler to attend on me.
That know not how to use ambassadors,
For doing these fair rites of tenderness.
But to your protestation; let me hear
mortal arbitrement; but nothing of the circumstance more.
Will these turtles be gone?
He shall as soon read in the eyes of others
My riots past, my wild societies;
For stony limits cannot hold love out,
Well, I will undertake it. What beard were I best
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
religion, their heads are both one; they may jowl
happiness, that remains loyal to his vow, and your,
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and DROMIO of Ephesus from the courtezan's
Yet who than he more mean?--to knit their souls,
Should nothing privilege him, nor partialize
Upon a wrong'd, I would fain have said, a maid!
save your word.
How now! what noise is that?
you're overthrown, you're undone for ever!
Uncharitably with me have you dealt,
Or tear the lions out of England's coat;
Hath newly pass'd between this youth and me.
Three thousand ducats: I'll not answer that:
Now, citizens of Angiers, ope your gates,
Come not near our fairy queen.
How often said, my dignity would last
The mad-brain'd bridegroom took him such a cuff
And for an honest attribute cry out
It had been as a gap in our great feast,
Of Roman gentlemen, by the senate sent.
Thou seest, the heavens, as troubled with man's act,
But sanctuary children ne'er till now.
Even as the flourish when true subjects bow
I'll send some holy bishop to entreat;
Lead forth and bring you back in happiness!
I am your lordship's.
Fie, there is no such man; it is impossible.
And make it but a shadow, as I am.
The weight of this sad time we must obey;
Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am
Whom Troy hath still denied: but this Antenor,
Nature would not invest herself in such shadowing
That death in me at others' lives may laugh.
To him, Patroclus; tell him I humbly desire the
Chief nourisher in life's feast,--
Well, peace be with you, sir: here comes my man.
O, be persuaded! do not count it holy
I cannot sum up sum of half my wealth.
It beckons you to go away with it,
This letter, madam, craves a speedy answer;
[Within]  Let him knock till it ache.
they will away presently.
And might not gain so great a happiness
And, with that word, she struck me on the head,
See, it stalks away!
They sell the pasture now to buy the horse,
Noble prince,
And now I should not lie, but will deserve
But jealousy what might befall your travel,
My uncle is return'd:
Come, I have heard that fearful commenting
from my brother, that I have not all o'er-read;
How now, my lord! why do you keep alone,
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder.
Sluttery to such neat excellence opposed
From which lord to which lady?
Thy sins are visited in this poor child;
fain have either.
ballad against the hard hearts of maids: it was
Be known unto us: are you all agreed, lords?
How I may bear me here: my prime request,
The barge she sat in, like a burnish'd throne,
And every lovely organ of her life
This is the very ecstasy of love,
And, being credulous in this mad thought,
Lord cardinal, he is your prisoner.
Exeunt BELARIUS and ARVIRAGUS
But fearing lest my jealous aim might err
I would I could have spoken with the woman herself;
God knows I will not do it, to the death.
Madam and mistress, a thousand good-morrows.
In praising Antony, I have dispraised Caesar.
The parts and graces of the wrestler
My daughter he hath wedded: I will die,
I hope I have: I am able now, methinks,
Exit above
Are we not beaten? Is not Angiers lost?
Heavens, can you suffer hell so to prevail?
And tell me what thou notest about the field.
Whose repetition will be dogg'd with curses;
[Aside]  And yet you will; and yet another 'yet.'
Wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile:
Sith 'twas my fault to give the people scope,
Laugh at me, make their pastime at my sorrow:
As we will ours, against these saucy walls;
May hang no longer on me: throw my heart
As you are great, be pitifully good:
too; though, in the mean time, some necessary
But stay, I'll read it over once again.
He would himself have been a soldier.
Exeunt QUEEN KATHARINE and her Attendants
Charming your blood with pleasing heaviness,
be many that they have loved, they know not
I will converse with iron-witted fools
'Tis he the common people love so much;
I'll choke myself: there's all I'll do for you.
When men were fond, I smiled and wonder'd how.
And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot,
Lucilius' Servant	And Sir Philotus too!
When you are cloudy.
Are ministers of Fate: the elements,
Beseech you, sir, desire
world needs to fear no colours.
Which honour does acknowledge, whereof the least
Were present when she finish'd.
remain; but when you depart from me, sorrow abides
Of my true mother.
Will the faithful offer take
And this the banquet she shall surfeit on;
For I must now to Oberon.
I overheard him and his practises.
Poins! Poins, and be hanged! Poins!
You have too much respect upon the world:
As soldiers can. Be cheerful; wipe thine eyes
Ay, but if it prove true, Master Page, have you any
Lady, a happy evening!
And mock for mock is only my intent.
Yes, marry, have I; what of that?
Come on, sir; I shall now put you to the height of
The abhorr'd ingredient to his eye, make known
Discover that which shall undo the Florentine.
And to survey the bodies of the dead.
my master and mistress are almost frozen to death.
Sir, do you know me?
No, faith, I'll not stay a jot longer.
That's not so good: he cannot like her long.
Exit
From this world's thraldom to the joys of heaven.
O, I know him well, I, sir; he, sir, 's a good
your worships: more of your conversation would
Exit
That can torment him much and hold him long,
Even from Hyperion's rising in the east
Opening on Neptune with fair blessed beams,
indeed, know not their fathers and therefore have no names.
The action of good women: there is hope
And in the shape of Corin sat all day,
Yes, certain, there's a letter for you; I saw't.
Is't not enough, is't not enough, young man,
That a maiden's heart hath burn'd?
O, go not yet! Even thus two friends condemn'd
Where and what time thou wilt perform the rite;
That have but labour'd to attain this hour.
Enter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, PEMBROKE, ESSEX, SALISBURY, and others, with CHATILLON
And lastly, to confirm that amity
Our scions, put in wild and savage stock,
I never should forget it: 'Wilt thou not, Jule?' quoth he;
Groan! why, no.
Makes my flesh tremble in their different greeting.
Howe'er you lean to the nayward.
For Warwick was a bug that fear'd us all.
If quick fire of youth light not your mind,
right, because he hath not the gift to woo in other
And then return and sleep within mine inn,
Do thou meet me presently at the harbour. Come
Which means she to deceive, father or mother?
Come, fellow-soldier, make thou proclamation.
Nor forward of revenge, though they much err'd:
And cuts me from the best of all my land
Of necessary fitness?
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing,
Awake, awake!
That 'twixt his mental and his active parts
In some reclusive and religious life,
I will not be, though I should win your displeasure
What service wilt thou do me, if I give them?
Than I to your highness; who, being born your vassal,
Thou stool for a witch!
Farewell, and stand fast.
As roughly as my modesty would let me.
As the shrouds make at sea in a stiff tempest,
matter. I am given, sir, secretly to understand
A join'd-stool.
All's true that is mistrusted: that false villain
Gentle and fair, your brother kindly greets you:
Naught to do with mistress Shore! I tell thee, fellow,
The taming-school! what, is there such a place?
A round hose, madam, now's not worth a pin,
This cherry nose,
God join'd my heart and Romeo's, thou our hands;
There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st
That were his lackeys: I cried 'hum,' and 'well, go to,'
And strew'd repentent ashes on his head.
the night than to fern-seed for your walking invisible.
My ashes, as the phoenix, may bring forth
Music
That seem like prudent helps, are very poisonous
Enter GLOUCESTER and his DUCHESS
In such a parley should I answer thee.
Why thou departed'st from thy native home
I am a king that find thee, and I know
I think you all have drunk of Circe's cup.
I could find in my heart to disgrace my man's
Then I'll commend her volubility,
Because my name is George.
O that my prayers could such affection move!
This Jacob from our holy Abram was,
Hadst thou descended from another house.
KING HENRY enters with his power. Alarum to the battle. Then enter DOUGLAS and SIR WALTER BLUNT
Said I for this, the girl was like to him?
Say, then, to Caesar,
With several applications; nature and sickness
Beat mine, inhoop'd, at odds. I will to Egypt:
Ay, marry, there; some flattery for this evil.
Shall taste our mercy. Go and tell them so.
good man is to have you understand me that he is
leave. And, I beseech you, look into Master Froth
your honour.
And in thy sight to die, what were it else
Believe me, queen, your swarth Cimmerian
Are letters brought, the tenor these:
Flourish
I frown upon him, yet he loves me still.
This we prescribe, though no physician;
Which when they fall, as being slippery standers,
to meet you on the way, and kiss your hand,
So infinitely endear'd--
Pardon me, royal sir;
that I might water an ass at it! I had rather be a
Stay a little while.
Out, hyperbolical fiend! how vexest thou this man!
And merrily hent the stile-a:
Yet in some measure satisfy her so
These lazy knaves? Ye have made a fine hand, fellows:
But she herself is hit lower: have I hit her now?
are: make the trial of it in any constant question.
I'll wait upon you, and I long to hear it.
How! traitor!
inherits, which makes fair gifts fairer; for where
with her, and bring her along with you, it may awake
O, if thou grant my need,
I am directed by you.
Hence, and bestow your luggage where you found it.
Sirrah, lead these gentlemen
Ay, and said nothing but what I protest intendment of doing.
Re-enter ANTONY
O Lord, I could have stay'd here all the night
Who was last with them?
How well supplied with noble counsellors,
I have no hope
Between the king and Katharine?
Thrust thy sharp wit quite through my ignorance;
We'll lay before this town our royal bones,
Touch her soft mouth, and march.
Now, governor of Paris, take your oath,
More than a mortal seeming. Be not angry,
Who dazzling so, that eye shall be his heed
Are spectacled to see him: your prattling nurse
My lord chamberlain,
And the country proverb known,
The other, London.
To parley or to fight; therefore prepare.
And sail so expeditious that shall catch
That thunders, lightens, opens graves, and roars
Stand you auspicious!
Enter BASSANIO and SHYLOCK
comest to thy father: if thou love me, practise an answer.
Is it even so? Nay, then, I see our wars
Exeunt SUFFOLK and WARWICK
Lo, he is tilting straight! Peace! I have done.
Being awake, enforce them to this place,
I do remember now: henceforth I'll bear
I heard you say, 'Is not my arm of length,
More than the infant that is born to-night
Let me come to her.
But now 'tis made an H.
So would not I	my love doth so approve him,
'Item: She is not to be kissed fasting in respect
against God's peace and the king's, we charge and
Becomes a virtuous bachelor and a maid,
He'll beat Aufidius 'head below his knee
That trudge betwixt the king and Mistress Shore.
That gentleman of Buckingham's; in person
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
And steep'd in blood? Ah, what an unkind hour
Than are the tender horns of cockl'd snails;
we see how mortal an unkindness is to them;
I prithee, Tom, beat Cut's saddle, put a few flocks
To her I go, a jolly thriving wooer.
Dead, I think. Help, uncle!
But I will fit it with some better time.
Exit
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
Mine, Hal, mine.
for I never saw her: I would be loath to cast away
No? you say your husband.
That pierced the fearful hollow of thine ear;
'Tis Alcibiades, and some twenty horse,
Within
Open the gates, and let me in.
The king, of his own royal disposition,
Good morrow, noble sir.
his master with a pursuivant presently: we'll hear
[To GONERIL]  Detested kite! thou liest.
Between the realms of England and of France.
they purpose their services. Besides, there is no
penance: that fire-drake did I hit three times on
Go, get thee gone, thou false deluding slave,
coming, to offer you service.
Sweet Phebe, pity me.
That can never be.
And silken dalliance in the wardrobe lies:
Come, Lucius, come; stay not to talk with them.
Sir, my good friend; I'll change that name with you:
Raised only, that the weaker sort may wish
innocence, which seems much, to justify him, but a
Where is my wit? I know not what I speak.
Let me entreat to know at large the cause
Commend them and condemn them to her service
No; an he were, I would burn my study. But, I pray
Then, noble auditory, be it known to you,
Speak freely what you think.
Whereof our uncle Gaunt did stand possess'd.
What you have been ere now, and what you are;
I have a health for you.
Now begin;
To bring it into danger.
Or keeping what is sworn, you will prove fools.
She is Lavinia, therefore must be loved.
Come, come, do you think I do not know you by your
To order peace between them; and omit
Who, with his shears and measure in his hand,
So you thought him;
I do beseech your grace to pardon me:
As if thou then hadst shut up in thy brain
Stands Macbeth thus amazedly?
With four or five most vile and ragged foils,
come a little nearer this ways.
And run a tilt at death within a chair?
Almost too small for sight: the murmuring surge,
I will be patient; outwardly I will.
Holy Gonzalo, honourable man,
incarnal; and, in my conscience, my conscience is
And the great care of goods at random left
I have a man's mind, but a woman's might.
And all is semblative a woman's part.
Upon that I kiss your hand, and I call you my queen.
But I do prophesy the election lights
They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
than a stone. Look you now, he's out of his guard
in the world but lie, and lie in my throat. By
Alarum. Retreat. Enter OCTAVIUS, ANTONY, MESSALA, LUCILIUS, and the army
Here in the lobby.
Sing it: 'tis no matter how it be in tune, so it
If I were fair, Thisby, I were only thine.
To strive for that which resteth in my choice:
That never aim'd so high to love your daughter,
I understand not, madam.
should be 'By this fire, that's God's angel:' but
Have at you with a proverb--Shall I set in my staff?
I might have look'd upon my queen's full eyes,
I humbly do entreat your highness' pardon;
A trumpet sounds
For any foreign preparation
Peter, take my fan, and go before and apace.
her to rise.
And in the stocks avouch it.
As loud as thine rattle the welkin's ear
So safely ordered that there is no soul--
Enter ROMEO
Thanks, sir.
My Nell, I take my leave: and, master sheriff,
She is young, and of a noble modest nature,
'My lady is unkind, perdy.'
That lock up your restraint. For you, Posthumus,
The drum begins to march
Exit
In Orsino's bosom.
I had no judgment when to her I swore.
Whispers
ACT I
Making night hideous; and we fools of nature
After a well-graced actor leaves the stage,
With such an agony, he sweat extremely,
But every rub is smoothed on our way.
Thou diest and all thy goods are confiscate.
How the English, in the suburbs close intrench'd,
At Tarsus, and by Cleon train'd
Must kings neglect, that private men enjoy!
are ambitious for poor knaves' caps and legs: you
Sir, with all my heart. This worthy signior, I
And the best quarrels, in the heat, are cursed
Would all themselves laugh mortal.
ACT II
Why, these balls bound; there's noise in it. 'Tis hard:
Exeunt
I marvel why I answer'd not again:
More than your enemies.
Defective in their natures, grow to wildness,
oak not to be wind-shaken.
I would have 'voided thee, but in mere spite,
He is welcome too.
Let not my jealousies be your dishonours,
If I loved many words, lord, I should tell you
So by my former lecture and advice,
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
How is it with you, lady?
Who, you all know, are honourable men:
that's villanous, and shows a most pitiful ambition
Follow him, friends: we'll hear a play to-morrow.
That's my fear. I pray you, have a continent
I hope, sir, I will do as it shall become one that
But stop their mouths with stubborn bits, and spur 'em,
A phantasime, a Monarcho, and one that makes sport
with beating; I am waked with it when I sleep;
The exile of her minion is too new;
What, Ariel! my industrious servant, Ariel!
What authority surfeits on would relieve us: if they
What's the matter, lieutenant?
Come, my dear love,
What is your name?
Are to be fear'd. Have you a precedent
In sharing that which you have pill'd from me!
There in the full convive we: afterwards,
Reads
I have two nights watched with you, but can perceive
The fearful passage of their death-mark'd love,
'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile;
And gave him what becomed love I might,
I was compell'd to her; but I love thee
Was broke in twain; by whom I have forgot,
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God be wi' ye.
and all the madness is, he cheers them up too.
That, with this little arm and this good sword,
And give her as a prey to law and shame,
And thou shalt find a king that will revenge
Well then, sustain him: O!
I shall no more to sea, to sea,
Thy sons make pillage of her chastity
Sing no more ditties, sing no moe,
Call forth your soothsayer: as I slept, methought
In our long absence: pray, do not deliver
Exeunt all but QUEEN MARGARET and SUFFOLK
I gird thee with the valiant sword of York:
At 'closes in the consequence,' ay, marry;
Omitting the sweet benefit of time
Alas the heavy day! Why do you weep?
Ha! what is that?
And then end life when I end loyalty!
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night:
SCENE I. Mantua. A street.
man's voice.
I found you wondrous kind. There is your ring;
And cannot lose your way.
As 'twere i' the father's person; kisses the hands
The manage of my state; as at that time
DON
second edition: he will print them, out of doubt;
his servant? Nay, I'll be sworn, I have sat in the
a knight's daughter,
Faith, I can cut a caper.
No, by this hand.
Draws out his table-book
And fortune play upon thy prosperous helm,
Did not I tell you? Would he were knock'd i' the head!
Have some malignant power upon my life:
a man who hath any honesty in him.
Away, begone; the sport is at the best.
A most poor man, made tame to fortune's blows;
It is foul weather in us all, good sir,
I'll read you matter deep and dangerous,
Enter SILVIA
Flourish. SATURNINUS courts TAMORA in dumb show
They laugh at. O my mother, mother! O!
Now, my masters, happy man be his dole, say I:
out of order. Come, march forward.
What, the commonwealth their boots? will she hold
Nay, I have verses too, I thank Biron:
Gentlemen,--
Lucius, who's that knocks?
Bring in the banquet quickly; wine enough
Richard hath best deserved of all my sons.
Exeunt
By devilish policy art thou grown great,
And thou shalt reign in quiet while thou livest.
To the Guard
I tell you that which you yourselves do know;
'Item: She is slow in words.'
Tell me, sweet lord, what is't that takes from thee
I'll have no speaking: I will have my bond.
That codding spirit had they from their mother,
With slaughter coupled to the name of kings.
No if thou dost say 'no' to my demand.
The anchor is deep: will that humour pass?
Shame to the Duke of Burgundy and thee!
Rushing on us, should do your age some mischief.
According as I gave directions?
Break ope the locks o' the senate and bring in
My house is not a grange.
O braggart vile and damned furious wight!
And therefore sit you down in gentleness
yourself. But indeed, if you find him not within
Amen, amen! but come what sorrow can,
If any be, the trespass of the queen.
To the rock, to the rock with him!
Enter the PRINCE OF WALES and FALSTAFF
Wool of bat and tongue of dog,
And so am I; my name is Walter Whitmore.
Save that we do the denunciation lack
Though castles topple on their warders' heads;
Faints
Methinks the power that Edward hath in field
Temptations have since then been born to's; for
But for my daughter Katharina, this I know,
my labour; if she be otherwise, 'tis labour well bestowed.
SCENE IX. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MECAENAS, and AGRIPPA
And the queen's sons and brothers haught and proud:
Yourself, your queen, your son.
She wakes; and I entreated her come forth,
will clog the foot of a flea, I'll eat the rest of
Plantagenet doth quit Plantagenet.
I know none such, my lord.
Upon her landing, Antony sent to her,
So sure as you your father's. I, old Morgan,
And give him from me this most needful scroll.
Cheque'd like a bondman; all his faults observed,
Go to the creating a whole tribe of fops,
Sirrah, give place.
Away! they'll kill us.
The other, when she has obtain'd your eye,
I am yours for the walk; and especially when I walk away.
And boarded her i' the wanton way of youth:
But can you teach all this you speak of?
For none abides with me: my joy is death;
The day is broke; be wary, look about.
He did ask favour.
hungry that if I might have a lease of my life for a
There's business in these faces. Why so sadly
Methinks I play as I have seen them do
[Aside to GARDINER]  Give me your hand much joy and
To stop devoted charitable deeds?
Rather than Paris. These are news indeed!
Sir, pardon; 'tis for Agamemnon's ears.
'Speak, strike, redress!' Am I entreated
What said he when he came unto himself?
The queen, sir, very oft importuned me
this starting.
Stands, as the Capitol, directly here.
Whose souls do bear an equal yoke Of love,
We recommend to you, tribunes of the people,
They place themselves in every corner of the stage
Thy pains not used must by thyself be paid:
reserve it, how shall's get it?
Isabel,
I see a yielding in the looks of France;
Who in this dull and long-continued truce
The royalties and rights of banish'd Hereford?
Being lass-lorn: thy pole-clipt vineyard;
How much you were my conqueror; and that
I' the plain way of his merit.
in their hearts, that for their tongues to be
But she is now the wife of Marcus Antonius.
Madam, sleeps still.
Did make offence his eye did heal it up.
In faith, she's too curst.
A gentler heart did never sway in court;
great wit:' 'Right,' says she, 'a great gross one.'
Good pilgrim, you do wrong your hand too much,
No, I'll be sworn; I make as good use of it as many
Both taxing me and gaging me to keep
snow-white hand of the most beauteous Lady
And by the hope I have of heavenly bliss,
my mistress' heart, and did the act of darkness with
this controversy.
Revenges burn in them; for their dear causes
SCENE IX. The Roman camp.
Many a widow's husband grovelling lies,
Kneeling
It may not be.
And surely as I live, I am a maid.
What's the disease he means?
Exit
To DON JOHN
Now he is gone, my lord, you need not fear.
To undeservers.
He bade me, from him, call thee thane of Cawdor:
How he refell'd me, and how I replied,--
Dies
When love begins to sicken and decay,
I freely told you, all the wealth I had
Shall furnish me to those Italian fields,
Who hither come engaged by my oath--
If not to fight with foreign enemies,
Doubtful it stood;
borrowed, three of four times; lived well and in
Stand close.
A page so kind, so duteous, diligent,
Why, gentle sweet, you shall see no such thing.
'The thrice three Muses mourning for the death
To stubborn harshness: and, my gracious duke,
As much as child e'er loved, or father found;
Ay, sir: the other squirrel was stolen from me by
Full fifteen hundred, besides common men.
But fish not, with this melancholy bait,
Yet better thus, and known to be contemn'd,
No, unpin me here.
Thou play'dst most foully for't: yet it was said
You love me not.
she will: and truly she deserves it; for if there
Down with him! down with him!
And then hurl down their indignation
Look through a casement to allure false hearts
As he from heaven merits it, with you
Follow the noise so far as we have quarter;
This happy breed of men, this little world,
We shall try fortune in a second fight.
Therein false struck, can take no greater wound,
thee!' and by the operation of the second cup draws
Well, I shall be wiser.
The insatiate greediness of his desires,
And all the men and women merely players:
Madam, 'twas Ariadne passioning
Then fare thee well: I must go buy spices for our
On whom depending, their obedience fails
What think you, Captain Fluellen? is it fit this
Another, with his finger and his thumb,
And I am prest unto it: therefore, speak.
plain-dealing man?
The sea will ebb and flow, heaven show his face;
on the voice of occupation and
without you; especially that of Cleopatra's, which
constrained in't to call thee knave, knight.
when I left him.
Were, on the quarry of these murder'd deer,
Which otherwise would grow into extremes.
Would! nay, I will.
Rome's royal mistress, mistress of my heart,
That were a state fit for his holiness.
Exeunt
He was the wretched'st thing when he was young,
Whom he hath dull'd and cloy'd with gracious favours,
Or an old lion, or a lover's lute.
To soften Angelo: and that's my pith of business
Re-enter DOUGLAS; he fights with FALSTAFF,  who falls down as if he were dead, and exit DOUGLAS. HOTSPUR is wounded, and falls
Exeunt MISTRESS QUICKLY and ROBIN
The sciences that should become our country;
No, madam, I do but read madness: an your ladyship
So rarely kind, are as interpreters
This stage the ship, upon whose deck
Masters, I am to discourse wonders: but ask me not
Exeunt all but KING HENRY VI and EXETER
How now, good fellow! wouldst thou speak with us?
in 't. Will you walk out of the air, my lord?
And majesty might never yet endure
It could not move thus.
SCENE IV. Before the palace.
Calpurnia here, my wife, stays me at home:
That breathes upon a bank of violets,
What it contains. If you shall see Cordelia,--
COUNTESS
Did you hear the proclamation?
A meaner than myself; since I myself
Remember me at court; where I was taught
Foul subornation is predominant
Peace!
So foul a sky clears not without a storm:
Ere I ope his letter,
Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate-tree:
Are all I can return. Beseech your lordship,
I call thee not.
I say, away! Go on; I'll follow thee.
How now, my charge!
arithmetic but her brain to set down her reckoning:
SCENE II. The same. The Capitol.
Been thus encounter'd. A figure like your father,
Whose overweening arm I have pluck'd back,
Thou sun, that comfort'st, burn! Speak, and
walked, to walk like one of the lions; when you
Such fear so grew in me, I hither fled,
not see her paddle with the palm of his hand? didst
O, name him not: let us not break with him;
four legs; for it hath been said, As proper a man as
Humbly call'd mistress.
the letter, for the nomination of the party writing
Go you, and call my fool hither.
Exit
Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
You have drawn oaths from him not to stay. You, sir,
Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Is run in your displeasure.
a dangerous and lascivious boy, who is a whale to
In a new channel, fair and evenly;
Yes, 'faith heartily.
I take't, 'tis later, sir.
What, are my doors opposed against my passage?
speak, my fair, and fairly, I pray thee.
Our trusty friend, unless I be deceived.
O worthy duke,
No more; unless the next word that thou speak'st
Alas!
that, neither having the accent of Christians nor
Let's see; I think 'tis now some seven o'clock,
SONG.
To save unscratch'd your city's threatened cheeks,
Tell him it was a hand that warded him
Grovelling on the ground
Now humble as the ripest mulberry
Your betters, sir.
Dromio, go bid the servants spread for dinner.
What, all amort? Rouen hangs her head for grief
Think you there was, or might be, such a man
do you know of it?
SCENE I. Before the house of ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus.
I love thee brotherly, but envy much
With many hundreds treading on his heels;
I would adventure for such merchandise.
in private;
Doth the inconsiderate take salve for l'envoy, and
Boy, this shall not excuse the injuries
Did not you hear a cry?
A fellow to it.
Most gracious majesty,--
dozen of them two hours together. I have 'scaped by
To smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss.
She's dead, deceased, she's dead; alack the day!
Into baboon and monkey.
O Thou that judgest all things, stay my thoughts,
My heart is turn'd to stone: and while 'tis mine,
She did disdain my child, and stood between
That he hath left part of his grief with me,
Wherefore! Why, doth not every earthly thing
six time pieced and a woman's crupper of velure,
How came you in these parts? where were you bred?
Who parted with me to go fetch a chain,
Where they shall know our mind: away!
By virtue of that ring, I take my cause
I have reserved alive.
Do it without invention, suddenly;
Should not expel these inconveniences
wept; for I must speak in passion, and I will do it
Let's, mock them still, as well known as disguised:
If thou beest a man, show thyself in thy likeness:
Which Salique, as I said, 'twixt Elbe and Sala,
And with our swords, upon a pile of wood,
Injurious Margaret!
He then that is not furnish'd in this sort
Come hither, sirrah. Can you cut off a man's head?
darkness; alias, the devil.
'Madam,' and nothing else: so lords
Benefactors? Well; what benefactors are they? are
There is a written scroll! I'll read the writing.
When he stands where I am and sees you there.
Come, one for me.
And raise the power of France upon his head,
Is now converted: but now I was the lord
Parolles, the gallant militarist,--that was his own
What we can do, we'll do, to do you service.
So I may keep mine eyes: O, spare mine eyes.
The morning comes upon 's: we'll leave you, Brutus.
Of all your dear offences! Bear them hence.
No epilogue, I pray you; for your play needs no
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege:
Menas, I'll not on shore.
Which makes me hope you are not void of pity.
And what's to come of my despised time
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers-- if
You are like one that superstitiously
Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed
And mark'd you both and for you both did blush:
Come, sir; we will better it in Pisa.
Or heard him say,--as knaves be such abroad,
And he did bid us follow to the temple.
'My lord, the horses your lordship sent for, with
To see thy thy Anthony making his peace,
Whom I affect; but she is nice and coy
He hath arm'd our answer,
Then would come some matter from him; I see none now.
And this is all a liberal course allows;
And leave his navy gazing.
Knocks
To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind,
Is now eclipsed; and it portends alone
An envious thrust from Tybalt hit the life
See that Claudio
I'm weary of this charge, the gods can witness:
Certes, she did; the kitchen-vestal scorn'd you.
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits,
And until then your entertain shall be
He will shake
To meet at Ninus' tomb, there, there to woo.
mirth: he hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's
Though we seemed dead, we did but sleep: advantage
With him! why, 'tis not possible.
Thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him,
That are so fortified against our story
rather praised for this than mocked; for it is as
that then thou mightst kill 'em and bid me to 'em!
That's true enough;
Hath heard your praises, and this night he means
Thou know'st not what; but take it for thy labour:
But I shall grieve you to report the rest.
If for thy ransom thou wilt now compound,
She would with rich and constant pen
Cassius, go you into the other street,
Go, go, provide.
Good counsel, marry: learn it, learn it, marquess.
Lo, in this right hand, whose protection
Conceives by idleness and nothing teems
Be thou a flatterer now, and seek to thrive
Persuade the queen to send the Duke of York
Ay, sir, it is too true; God help the while!
Madam, and pretty mistresses, give ear:
Peace!
To my fortunes and me.
There died this morning of a cruel fever
And she in mine.
We do.
Ay, marry, uncle; for I always thought
Why, such and such; and the contents o' the story.
Thou changed and self-cover'd thing, for shame,
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
religious uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was
I left them all in health.
Tell him, the daughter of the King of France,
Enter a Nobleman
Were in the Washes all unwarily
heart to beat him,--
We'll have thee, as our rarer monsters are,
You must be godfather, and answer for her.
Once in contempt they would have barter'd me:
nothing, is to have rich eyes and poor hands.
And with him rises weeping: these are flowers
Out of the dukedom and confer fair Milan
To the Fool
To me he seems like diamond to glass.
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven?
Marry, well bethought:
Thou shouldst rather ask if it were possible any
But the fair of Rosalind.
Cannot stand under them: if you omit
O Banquo, Banquo,
We'll mannerly demand thee of thy story,
And posts, like the commandment of a king,
too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for? Is it
opinion; which, bettered with his own learning, the
That, when thou comest to kneel at Henry's feet,
They are not such as you.
About his marriage, nor my own disgrace,
Fenton had her; I will do what I can for them all
Upon my life, began her devilish practises:
If thou wert near a lewd interpreter!
thou art our admiral, thou bearest the lantern in
Give me one poor request.
his meat without grudging: and how you may be
From seventeen years till now almost fourscore
the length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The
Some such thing
words, and keeps whole weapons. For Nym, he hath
my opinion; hold it no longer: this is no fish,
As in revenge, have suck'd up from the sea
And seal the bargain with a holy kiss.
Ay:
Not as death's dart, being laugh'd at; his
I know our safety is to follow them;
Speak, good Cominius:
And when I send for you, come hither mask'd.
How were I then uplifted! but, alas!
We please to have it grow. Cheque thy contempt:
Ay, defiled land, my lord.
Better thou
is infinite and the execution confined, that the
grain enough!
She will be sick else. This day, no man think
Yet did repent me, after more advice;
A trembling contribution! Why, we take
But he will not entreat his son for us.
does lend articles?
No, we detest such vile base practises.
Good mother, do not marry me to yond fool.
How I may formally in person bear me
But there was more temperate fire under the pot of
Have won his grace to come in person hither
To match my friend Sir Thurio to my daughter.
You must not take for fire. From this time
Shall have the chinks.
Sings
Attend our weightier judgment. And, not to swell
Than if the earl were here; for men must think,
Take me this work out.
Me rather had my heart might feel your love
My mind is troubled, like a fountain stirr'd;
None, but to lose your eyes.
and come every day to my cote and woo me.
And I'll go to bed at noon.
No, sure, my lord, my mother cried; but then there
Cry you mercy, I took you for a joint-stool.
Thou art perfect then, our ship hath touch'd upon
Of such a burden, male twins, both alike:
of him: how he jets under his advanced plumes!
I can no other answer make but thanks,
prostrate and grovel on the earth; John Southwell,
freedom: but you are all recreants and dastards,
There's such divinity doth hedge a king,
O, but remember this another day,
Makes them thus forward in his banishment.
I will not fight with a pole, like a northern man:
As the dog Jew did utter in the streets:
Shall to the edge of all extremity
You may as well use question with the wolf
Exeunt, severally
Your lady, sir, your lady: and her sister
And I have play'd the sheep in losing him.
And on our actions set the name of right
Are to your throne and state children and servants,
Jove, Jove! this shepherd's passion
Most sovereign creature,--
Who is there?
Rather than so, come fate into the list.
say, we will do no harm with our swords, and that
Aiming at Silvia as a sweeter friend.
Go, fellow, get thee home, provide some carts
Good madam, what's the matter with my lord?
No matter, then, who see it;
And would in action glorious I had lost
Still, I swear I love you.
The common stroke of war.
heart; for, truly, I love none.
Enter the BASTARD
I wait the sharpest blow, Antiochus.
That by the top doth take the mountain pine,
Then once more to your Scottish prisoners.
Faith, sir, so so.
Enter HUME
Hath twice done salutation to the morn;
Upon the fortune of this present year:
Should from encounter guard. Could I find out
And any man may sing her, if he can take her cliff;
So do you.
Spied a blossom passing fair
Catch in their fury, and make nothing of;
the Garter?
My brother dead! I know thou dost but jest:
And givest such sarcenet surety for thy oaths,
Then come, o' God's name; I fear no woman.
have found in any part of Illyria. Will you walk
So are the prince and Claudio, who accused her
Patience, I pray you; 'twas a fault unwilling.
This I wonder at,
having any occasion to write for matter of grant,
No, wrangling woman, we'll no longer stay:
cause. A word, my lord.
Here on this molehill will I sit me down.
That's a fault that water will mend.
The government I cast upon my brother
This is as uncivil as strange. I beseech you, do me
Receive so many, and all willingly:
If you'll employ me to him.
And then you would have tarried. Hark!
A holy day shall this be kept hereafter:
Yet confident I'll keep what I have swore
Wherefore?
When she will play with reason and discourse,
Of that proud man that did usurp his back?
Yes, indeed do I, fellow.
Sir,
Thy case, dear friend,
Tell him the queen hath heartily consented
new-ta'en sparrow.
Here comes Signior Claudio, led by the provost to
This way, or not at all, stand you in hope.
Let them puff all about mine ears, present me
Sir, my liege,
Say I love Brutus, and I honour him;
Set honour in one eye and death i' the other,
Therefore these stops of thine fright me the more:
Well begun, Tranio.
Advance thy halbert higher than my breast,
Well, I am school'd: good manners be your speed!
That ever enter'd in a drowsy head,
to thee. My revenge is now at Milford: would I had
Dyed in his blood unto the shepherd youth
That your best friends shall wish I had been further.
A pair of bleeding-hearts; thereon engrave
And yet thy tongue will not confess thy error.
Where?
Whither I must, I must; and, to conclude,
Give the word.
'spare not me?' Indeed your 'O Lord, sir!' is very
That late he married--hath referr'd herself
If he be old enough, what needs your grace
This viperous slander enters. What cheer, madam?
To have brought viva voce to his face:
Well; go to; very well.
And thrust thyself into their companies:
My lord, I do protest--
How now? two of my brother's men bound! Borachio
Were well deserved of rashness.
'Tis monstrous. Iago, who began't?
Is a plain fish, and, no doubt, marketable.
Prevail not, go and see: if you can bring
And his more braver daughter could control thee,
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Reads
Proclaim him in the streets; incense her kinsmen,
You should not blemish it, if I stood by:
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
I see a man here needs not live by shifts,
May have a tomb of orphans' tears wept on em! What more?
Now thou'rt troublesome.
At the park gate; and therefore haste away,
The stairs, as he treads on them, kiss his feet:
Still more fool I shall appear
It turns in less than two nights? O you gods,
shall be as it may. I dare not fight; but I will
will blow it to pieces, they are so pitifully sodden.
Be buckled with: the over-daring Talbot
I take my leave with many thousand thanks.
of beauty.
And let us make incision for your love,
O this learning, what a thing it is!
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, QUEEN ELIZABETH,  CLARENCE, GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, a Nurse with the young Prince, and Attendants
O dearest soul! your cause doth strike my heart
That's as much as to say, the sweet youth's in love.
Thou say'st his sports were hinderd by thy brawls:
When subtle Greeks surprised King Priam's Troy,
Of common ounces? will you with counters sum
SCENE I. The British camp, near Dover.
Besides, I have some business in the town.
Do you know this Captain Dumain?
Save yourself, my lord:
To a hair.
Must it be great, and as his person's mighty,
Or butchers killing flies.
I will be mild and gentle in my speech.
Than our foregoers: the mere word's a slave
That is, the madman: the lover, all as frantic,
The people in the street cry Romeo,
He came not back: he is or ta'en or slain.
Not yet! no dance! Thus change I like the moon.
The circle of my glory.
Who struck this heat up after I was gone?
I have it ready for thee; here it is.
What's he?
A woman, naturally born to fears;
say he lies?
O, sir, I will not be so hard-hearted; I will give
Exit
To an untirable and continuate goodness:
A landless knight makes thee a landed squire.
Which in a napkin being close convey'd
Since foes have scope to beat both thee and me.
three half pence. Nym and Bardolph are sworn
Nor more nor clipp'd, but so.
If not, how best to bear it.
I can add colours to the chameleon,
On her ingrateful top! Strike her young bones,
which pitifully disaster the cheeks.
Yes, you are.
Under a hand accursed!
Good madonna, why mournest thou?
Perchance 'twill walk again.
I'll say yon grey is not the morning's eye,
For purchasing but trouble; the thanks I give
What speech, my lord?
Come, come, no more of this unprofitable chat.
To lingering sufferance. Answer me to-morrow,
Honour, high honour and renown,
O that I had my wish!
To lure this tassel-gentle back again!
If these be they, I know not how to wish
Which we ourselves have plough'd for, sow'd,
of our company?
The seasons' difference, as the icy fang
I swear 'tis better to be much abused
by and by it will strike.
That all eyes saw his eyes enchanted with gazes.
Hence, and shut your gates upon's.
Home both in word and deed. Most cruelly
And, noble uncle, I beseech your grace
At your service.
Or bring him in obedience to your yoke.
livelihood from her cheek. No more of this, Helena;
Lo, at this tomb my tributary tears
Yet, Marcius, that was much. Your hand: most welcome!
Ourselves to be.
An army of good words; and I do know
It can do me no damage;' adding further,
Good day, my lord.
Whence comest thou? what wouldst thou? thy name?
Exeunt
Were you in doubt, sir, that you asked her?
O, how, how?
enough in his purse, such a man would win any woman
Does conquer him that did his master conquer
To plead for that which I would not obtain,
Consume away in sighs, waste inwardly:
How much salt water thrown away in waste,
What trade, sir?
To know the thing I am forbid to know:
Till fortune, tired with doing bad,
thy tongue. Kerely bonto, sir, betake thee to thy
Wish himself the heaven's breath.
A buck-basket!
And nature, as it grows again toward earth,
The lady protests too much, methinks.
If for his tender here I make some stay.
Will you vouchsafe to teach a soldier terms
What art thou?
Nor you, as we are, loyal.
As this world goes, to pass for honest.
Which lets go by some sixteen years and makes her
I kneel and then implore her blessing. Lady,
These cheeks are pale for watching for your good.
'Zounds, sir, you're robb'd; for shame, put on
Contemptuous base-born callet as she is,
Let's ha't, good soldier.
And hardly understood.
Bedabbled with the dew and torn with briers,
eight o'clock, to have amends.
I know your back will bear a duchess: say,
O mercy, God! what masquing stuff is here?
The time when screech-owls cry and ban-dogs howl,
That visit my sad heart
Give me your hand, Bassanio: fare you well!
Even now, now, very now, an old black ram
O, where is Romeo? saw you him to-day?
scarce obey this medicine.
and skirts, round underborne with a bluish tinsel:
Why, are all your beggars whipped, then?
An ante-chamber adjoining Imogen's apartments.
I say my prayers aloud.
In him there is a hope of government,
awake your senses, that you may the better judge.
Away, I say; time wears: hold up your head, and mince.
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
Those whose great power must try him; even this,
Have you not set them on?
I am but sorry, not afeard; delay'd,
Hortensio, peace! thou know'st not gold's effect:
The very beams will dry those vapours up,
But to be frank, and give it thee again.
A living drollery. Now I will believe
Why then, 'tis good to be a post.
Infirm of purpose!
Early in blustering morn this lady was
So that by this intelligence we learn
But hath his bound, in earth, in sea, in sky:
enemies; and what's his reason? I am a Jew. Hath
From all such devils, good Lord deliver us!
Thou desirest me to stop in my tale against the hair.
With blood removed but little from her own?
I say, my lord, they have deserved death.
As take from me thyself and not me too.
I humbly thank you:
That this his love was an eternal plant,
Re-enter CATESBY
My heart will sigh when I miscall it so,
But I must make fair weather yet a while,
Thou, sapient sir, sit here. Now, you she foxes!
And mine shall.
What I desire to give, and much less take
Somerset, Somerset, for Lancaster!
And they shall find dear deer of us, my friends.
Tell him he shall not speak with me.
But once before I spoke to the purpose: when?
Which we disdain should tatter us, yet sought
The inclining Desdemona to subdue
Hold fast the mortal sword, and like good men
But I persuaded them, if they loved Benedick,
grace, I hope: that were a trick indeed! but
Willow, willow, willow,--
King Henry's issue, Richmond, comforts thee.
down; I come to speak with her, indeed.
To overgo thy plaints and drown thy cries!
Of dull Octavia. Shall they hoist me up
The tyrant custom, most grave senators,
I knew you must be edified by the margent ere you had done.
My thoughts, that labour to persuade my soul
In compliment extern, 'tis not long after
ANTIPHOLUS
Either they must be dieted like mules
You to his love must accord,
Well, Hal, well; and in some sort it jumps with my
Swifter than the moon's sphere;
Behold him.
A day's work in him. What shalt thou expect,
Troy must not be, nor goodly Ilion stand;
Ay, my lord.
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
Environed with a wilderness of sea,
That I yet know not?
This is thy sheath;
Pardon me, madam,
An honour! were not I thine only nurse,
By calmness or by absence: all's in anger.
The dangerous and unsuspected Hastings.
thing hereafter.
Till it fly out and show them princes born.
Whereto our health is bound; we are not ourselves
him as this of Kent's banishment.
To oppose his hatred fully. Welcome home.
And make our faces vizards to our hearts,
Whiles it was ours. So will it fare with Claudio:
You shall look fairer, ere I give or hazard.
Ah, let be, let be! thou art
Boy, bristle thy courage up; for Falstaff he is dead,
I do beseech you,
A heavier task could not have been imposed
Within Corioli gates: where he hath won,
Bleed, bleed, poor country!
Thou hast spoken all already, unless thou canst say
'After my flame lacks oil, to be the snuff
learned by the perfectest report, they have more in
Are penitent for your default to-day.
As those that feed grow full, as blossoming time
for you; and there's an end.
Enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
True, madam, none at all: what call you this?
I have heard I am a strumpet; and mine ear
Is there not a ballad, boy, of the King and the Beggar?
torches, walking with thee in the night betwixt
Here, master doctor, in perplexity and doubtful dilemma.
Therefore away with us to Killingworth.
O churl! drunk all, and left no friendly drop
God send you joy, Petruchio! 'tis a match.
To die is to be banish'd from myself;
I thank you, honest lord. Remember me
I then did ask of her her changeling child;
pray you, sir, of what disposition was the duke?
Expects my coming, there to see me shipp'd.
lion's claws. And, most dear actors, eat no onions
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried corse,
Gelidus timor occupat artus it is thee I fear.
Therefore, Caveto be thy counsellor.
Your partner in the cause 'gainst which he fought,
Thou art no father nor no friend of mine.
That I would choose, were I to choose anew.
Do execution on my flesh and blood.
Lest that thy love prove likewise variable.
Making both it unable for itself,
As they have given these hairs their liberty!'
Truly, fortune's displeasure is but sluttish, if it
Ride on the pants triumphing!
had some reason for't; for if a king bid a man be a
I go, my lord.
This cannot save you:
Who's there? whose noise is this that ones on murder?
No more, no more: worse than the sun in March,
To bless your eye withal.
Which if thou follow, this strict court of Venice
Rest you merry!
Myself, Belarius, that am Morgan call'd,
love it, nor your affections and your appetites and
you of this man that takes me for the general? He's
O spite! O hell! I see you all are bent
policy; I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways:
Poor lady, she were better love a dream.
Spake he so doubtfully, thou couldst not feel his meaning?
He that a fool doth very wisely hit
beyond Eton, they threw me off from behind one of
Come when the king doth to my lady come;
Teach thou this sorrow how to make me die,
And stop the rising of blood-sucking sighs,
Tell me, moreover, hast thou sounded him,
Stabs herself
He call'd her whore: a beggar in his drink
hence, and left me asleep! I have had a most rare
So I do.
good enough for him.
Rosaline.' I will look again on the intellect of
That apprehends no further than this world,
To fight I will, but not to fly the foe.
O this false soul of Egypt! this grave charm,--
My lord?
What hope is there of his majesty's amendment?
Leave us to cure this cause.
You're welcome, sir; and he, for your good sake.
The play may pass, if they be still and willing,
Let the superfluous and lust-dieted man,
Encourage him, and show him all our reasons:
Say that I did all this for love of her.
None but his enemies.
it upon my death, I gave him this wound in the
There I deny my land service. But give me your
Could never be her mild companion.
He's safe for these three hours.
Who is thy grandfather: he made those clothes,
Exeunt GRIFFITH and Messenger
Whom conscience and my kindred bids to right.
Is richly furnished with plate and gold;
His lecture will be done ere you have tuned.
Last night of all,
Offer their own lives in their young's defence?
No, good sir;
There's many have committed it.
Whiles others fish with craft for great opinion,
thou layest the plot how.
To ABERGAVENNY
love him, I should.'
That I shall think it a most plenteous crop
from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy
it quite, friar, till eating and drinking be put
Prove this a prosperous day, the three-nook'd world
say doubt; det, when he should pronounce debt,--d,
we cannot with such magnificence--in so rare--I know
No, not so much as 'Take this for thy pains.' To
At my misfortunes? can thy spirit wonder
impossible you should take true root but by the
call you the town's name where Alexander the Pig was born!
am not such a sickly creature, I give heaven praise.
Re-enter ANNE PAGE
Even at the crying of your nation's crow,
Slubber not business for my sake, Bassanio
What's Antony? The god of Jupiter.
Enter DON PEDRO and CLAUDIO
May be possessed with some store of crowns;
And make me blest to obey! I am brought hither
Nay, that's true, that's very true. Go, Tubal, fee
Yet one thing more, good Blunt, before thou go'st,
He'll shape his old course in a country new.
Insulting Charles! hast thou by secret means
With winged haste to the lord marshal;
Make good this ostentation, and you shall
And I the rather wean me from despair
Semblably furnish'd like the king himself.
How can that be?
would of--I'll beat him, an if I could but meet him again.
Beloved sons, be yours: which to confirm,
Worthy voices!
Exeunt all but Malcolm and Donalbain.
Some wanton charm upon this man and maid,
You would be satisfied?
I pray you, sir, walk in.
Upon what ground?
Besides, we'll cut the throats of those we have,
Exit
Sorrow on thee and all the pack of you,
You know me well; I am he.
All my reports go with the modest truth;
Shall nothing wrong him. Thus it is, general.
With wholesome syrups, drugs and holy prayers,
The mighty sender, doth he prize you at.
But it is your carbonadoed face.
Master constable,--
But that his wildness, mortified in him,
A king, a king!
That's Antenor: he has a shrewd wit, I can tell you;
I am your better, traitors as ye are:
bethought him of his quarrel, and he finds that now
she your jewel, this your jewel, and my gold are
Amen. Dear goddess, hear that prayer of the people!
time and oft.
A madness, of which her life's in danger. Heavens,
A shield as hard as his. A certain number,
Muse not that I thus suddenly proceed;
The picture that is hanging in your chamber;
With commendation from great potentates;
Now will it best avail your majesty
'Affectionate servant,
It is, because no one should sway but he;
With all my heart
it pleaseth their deities to take the wife of a man
Good work, you and your cry! Shall's to the Capitol?
More perilous than the head.
Of this diseased opinion, and betimes;
What's the matter? how now!
Their purpose is to parle, to court and dance;
I have not stopp'd mine ears to their demands,
O devil, devil!
To answer by the method, in the first of his heart.
Hold your hands,
Though I show'd sourly to him, once more offer'd
More after our commandment than as guided
Go, sirrah, trudge about
young days. Why, I am going with my pigeons to the
O, torture me no more! I will confess.
Indeed, neighbour, he comes too short of you.
Enter CLEOPATRA, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, CHARMIAN, and IRAS
But cardinal sins and hollow hearts I fear ye:
Whose envious gulf did swallow up his life.
And with his hat, thus waving it in scorn,
It's sign she hath been liberal and free.
[Aside to ANTONIO]  I say, to-night: no more.
marriage-hour,
I bade you never speak again of him:
Sepulchring an adultress.
Fools do those villains pity who are punish'd
It would control my dam's god, Setebos,
This is, to give a dog, and in recompense desire my
And I, her husband, contradict your bans.
The Lord Grandpre.
And deal with others better.
How fiery and forward our pedant is!
'Good den, sir Richard!'--'God-a-mercy, fellow!'--
They run off
'Tis ten to one this play can never please
justified in our loves; for indeed--
I will not harbour in this town to-night:
Halloo your name to the reverberate hills
A gentleman, and follower of my lady's.
Had I sufficient skill to utter them,
Do press among the popular throngs and puff
After my flight. Now go we in content
christen could be better bit than I have been since
A virtuous gentlewoman, mild and beautiful
And no worldly suit would he be moved,
Go I to make the French lay down their arms.
The thing I shall repent. See, see, your silence,
Come, come, return; return, thou wandering lord:
O, content thee.
the marking of it.
Upon what cause?
metal to make virgins. Virginity by being once lost
Well, sit we down,
Good morrow, lord, good morrow.
So thrive my soul--
Go, bid thy master rise and come to me
With that he call'd the tailor lown.
Pray you, mark.
This fortress built by Nature for herself
Home to your house, the Phoenix, sir, to dinner:
methinks they are such a gentle nation that, but for
Could not a worm, an adder, do so much?
Varro's
It is my fashion, when I see a crab.
He will again be well: if much you note him,
I'll fortune-tell you.
Enter KATHARINA and BIANCA
And preachers to us all, admonishing
stuffed tennis-balls.
Exeunt
Went through the army, cheering up the soldiers.
And beat the messenger who bids beware
the fear of God, and not with drunken knaves.
So Brutus should be found. I thank thee, Brutus,
Since you lack virtue, I will lose a husband;
Will your grace command me any service to the
Exeunt
out of my love to you, I came hither to acquaint you
Who died, and was Fidele. What think you?
That would depopulate the city and
Speak, Edmund, where's the king? and where's Cordelia?
Enter DERBY and SIR CHRISTOPHER URSWICK
Fery goot: I will make a prief of it in my note-
[Aside]  To cart her rather: she's too rough for me.
Roaring for Troilus, who hath done to-day
You have the honey still, but these the gall;
What fit is this, good lady?
[To NERISSA]  By yonder moon I swear you do me wrong;
So smooth he daub'd his vice with show of virtue,
And with satiety seeks to quench his thirst.
She was the fairest creature in the world;
Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right
I'll steal to Glendower and Lord Mortimer;
I never heard such a drawling, affecting rogue.
And these external manners of laments
To change the course: he's full of alteration
Laid any scruple in your way, which might
Will either of you bear me a challenge to him?
Sweet Moon, I thank thee for thy sunny beams;
Who now the price of his dear blood doth owe?
Know'st thou this paper?
Hence, sirs; away!
And will you?
The time inviting thee? the perturb'd court,
Shall lessen this big look.
As if he were of note: bring him to the king.
Let us consult upon to-morrow's business
I have already delivered him letters, and there
Now, sir, what news?
For Antony is but a limb of Caesar:
Not to be shaked; the agent for his master
The fiery Tybalt, with his sword prepared,
By that which knitteth souls and prospers loves,
When they have lost and forfeited themselves?
Come, come, take it up.
My love, forbear to fawn upon their frowns:
Two faults, madonna, that drink and good counsel
I came unto your court for honour's cause,
Life perfect honour.
He still hath held them; that to's power he would
Because Cassandra's mad: her brain-sick raptures
from my snow-white pen the ebon-coloured ink, which
Please you to dispose yourselves.
Banished, sir.
There was the weight that pull'd me down. O Cromwell,
The heir of kingdoms and another like
Now, all the plagues that in the pendulous air
By debitor and creditor: this counter-caster,
I can express no kinder sign of love
Before him through the city: he forbids it,
Is a black Ethiope reaching at the sun
Ha! Goneril, with a white beard! They flattered
Be patient, gentle queen, and I will stay.
If ever thou wilt thrive, bury my body;
Whose aim seems far too short to hit me here:
Gentles, do not reprehend:
The breath is gone, and the sore eyes see clear:
Nor by what wonder you do hit of mine,--
A thing
I like him well.
Whilst rank corruption, mining all within,
My father's bears more toward the market-place;
That dignifies the renown of a bawd, no less than it
And all that poets feign of bliss and joy.
Thou pure impiety and impious purity!
And laid mine honour too unchary out:
But wherefore stand'st thou with thy weapon drawn?
ACT IV
Why, then you left me--O, the gods forbid!--
The shes of Italy should not betray
At thy choice, then:
The time was once when thou unurged wouldst vow
should down.
Out, you rogue! you pluck my foot awry:
things answer my mind.
Good Tom Drum, lend me a handkercher: so,
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons;
Where's Captain Margaret, to fence you now?
will give over all.
The pleasing punishment that women bear,
Exeunt
Before you open it.
The gods of Greece protect you!
The untimely fall of virtuous Lancaster.
They are not herbs, you knave; they are nose-herbs.
I have done no harm. But I remember now
And gentlewomen wear such caps as these
porridge after meat! I could live and die i' the
The other, Walter Whitmore, is thy share.
But to the girdle do the gods inherit,
Hath with his forged letters,--damn'd Pisanio--
Were the world mine, Demetrius being bated,
And is his oracle.
Whose life was England's glory, Gallia's wonder.
Who hath abandoned her holy groves
What?
Into life's flower again!
Being well arrived from Delphos, are both landed,
Till then I'll sweat and seek about for eases,
Twin-born with greatness, subject to the breath
To keep her chamber.
As if allegiance in their bosoms sat,
As I can change these poor accoutrements,
Admiringly, my liege, at first
that your senses, unintelligent of our insufficience,
Then talk no more of flight, it is no boot;
Exit Lieutenant
A most unspotted lily shall she pass
My ancestors did from the streets of Rome
That Romeo should, upon receipt thereof,
You are the most immediate to our throne;
The harmony of this peace. The vision
cried 'Have patience, good people!'
Virtue is choked with foul ambition
To banish your defenders; till at length
Into the gallery.
As haggerds of the rock.
Ay, spare us not. Say we read lectures to you.
Pray, walk softly, do not heat your blood:
As full of peril and adventurous spirit
for argument, unless the poet and the player went to
If you head and hang all that offend that way but
Nay, Sir Nicholas,
Why dost thou show to the apt thoughts of men
Was not thy father, Richard Earl of Cambridge,
The Welshmen are dispersed, and Salisbury
I am friend to them and you: upon which errand
Of such enchanting presence and discourse,
Remains in danger of her former tooth.
together, and fast it fairly out: our cakes dough on
What fellow's this?
Is it as he will? well then, France shall rue.
Lament till I am lost.
This tale of Herne the hunter for a truth.
Come, stand thou by our side;
I know this is a joyful trouble to you;
Will not a calfs-skin stop that mouth of thine?
You that survive, and you that sleep in fame!
And hark ye, sirs; because she is a maid,
Yet he loves himself: is't not strange?
And therefore is the glorious planet Sol
And now I must be as unjust to Thurio.
In every place, save here in Italy.
O my distressed lord, even such our griefs are;
walnut for his wife's leman.' Satisfy me once more;
now shalt thou be moved. Give me a cup of sack to
Falls into the pit
And manage it against despairing thoughts.
Defy us to our worst: for, as I am a soldier,
do, but in the way of honesty: how she died of the
So, king, go safely on to seek thy son.
To VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA,  and c
How you do leave me to mine own protection.
Think you not that the powers we bear with us
O, make for Tarsus!
That rheumatic diseases do abound:
Defer no time, delays have dangerous ends;
Enter CYMBELINE, QUEEN, CLOTEN, LUCIUS, Lords, and Attendants
'larum of jealousy, comes me in the instant of our
And suffer'd me by the voice of slaves to be
Brother, a word; descend: brother, I say!
To enter publicly: him I'll desire
Infect thy sap and live on thy confusion.
Out at your window betwixt twelve and one?
Which cannot perish having thee aboard,
Servant-monster! the folly of this island! They
From France?
Didst not thou share? hadst thou not fifteen pence?
ROSENCRANTZ:
A woman's shape doth shield thee.
It is the Count Rousillon, my good lord,
O, understand my drift. She dwells so securely on
Draw, you rascal: you come with letters against the
Only foul words; and thereupon I will kiss thee.
Exeunt
Naughty lady,
Now, how dost thou look now? O ill-starr'd wench!
All offences, my lord, come from the heart: never
On the first view to say, to swear, I love thee.
Against my will I am sent to bid you come in to dinner.
Burn the great sphere thou movest in!
This is the liver-vein, which makes flesh a deity,
This world I do renounce, and, in your sights,
The rest are princes, barons, lords, knights, squires,
That you do speak to the people.
These wrongs, unspeakable, past patience,
Do I so? take thou that.
And yet the spacious breadth of this division
Exit
The kings that have revolted, and the soldier
A retreat sounded
There must be needs a like proportion
Angelo, came not to an undoubtful proof.
Whither, my lord? Cesario, husband, stay.
From your good queen.
And so will I.
Almost at odds with morning, which is which.
In all this presence that hath moved me so.
With all the nearest things to my heart, as well
So.
That know the strong'st and surest way to get.
Whose loves I may not drop, but wail his fall
And now, like Ajax Telamonius,
Authority so weighty.
So much the more
[Reads the epitaph]  'Here lies a
And tell me, in the modesty of honour,
Was in my nobler thoughts most base, is now
England is safe, if true within itself?
I think this tale would win my daughter too.
And, for an onset, Titus, to advance
behind-door-work: they were warmer that got this
Didst note it?
ACT II
Quickly, to him, and excuse his throwing into the
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away:
No visor does become black villany
And tricking for our fairies.
As my sweet Richard: yet again, methinks,
'Twas men I lack'd and you will give them me:
But I fear
Enter a Servant
The time, the place, the torture: O, enforce it!
gods great harm in their women; for in every ten
Let her shine as gloriously
by this hand, I will take thee a box on the ear.
Lest our old robes sit easier than our new!
should like her? that but seeing you should love
And, be assured, you'll find a difference,
When heaven doth weep, doth not the earth o'erflow?
Look you, I love you well; I'll give you gold,
This bird you aim'd at, though you hit her not;
And therefore hath the wind-swift Cupid wings.
The next news is, I have to London sent
Shame and confusion! all is on the rout;
How happy then were my ensuing death!
I weep myself to think upon thy words.
Into the service of the time and was
Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint:
By nice direction of a maiden's eyes;
Either I must, or have mine honour soil'd
With charitable bill,--O bill, sore-shaming
That Rome holds of his name; wherein obscurely
True or false, it hath made thee earl of
If to do were as easy as to know what were good to
The son of Duncan,
Fare thee well, dame, whate'er becomes of me:
I know thee well;
I cannot bound a pitch above dull woe:
for there be of them that will themselves laugh, to
In being Coriolanus.
Have to you, but with thanks to God for such
Down, strumpet!
and I am yet so near the manners of my mother, that
So to the Moor.
He closes with you in this consequence;
park; and I will teach a scurvy jack-a-nape priest
You have told them home;
Come on, then; I will swear to study so,
That she was false: O, she was heavenly true!
Enter Attendants
If you would not so,
Ready, so please your grace.
But if I thrive, the gain of my attempt
Dost seem so ignorant, we'll enforce it from thee
presently call the rest of the watch together and
afore Michaelmas?
Figures pedantical; these summer-flies
He speaks by leave and by permission,
That I must die here and live hence by truth?
So, if the issue of the elder son
O Tybalt, Tybalt, the best friend I had!
Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news?
Look, here's a letter from him: the state hath
Some sudden qualm hath struck me at the heart
And to commend their service to his will.
Do you as I do in these dangerous days:
If I to-day die not with Frenchmen's rage,
and therefore tell me, most fair Katharine, will you
Exeunt
Dies
That we have bled together. Coriolanus
part. Thine, in the dearest design of industry,
And sends them weapons wrapped about with lines,
You have, Master Slender; I stand wholly for you:
In tatter'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
Who would be so mock'd with glory? or to live
Enter LORD STANLEY
That floated with thee on the fatal raft?
And thou mis-shapen Dick, I tell ye all
Away! away!
my head fill my belly; one fruitful meal would set
Where is thy lady? Or, by Jupiter,--
My scutcheon plain declares that I am Alisander,--
Poor harmless lambs abide their enmity.
Exit
Rest on my word, and let not discontent
All places that the eye of heaven visits
signs of leaping-houses and the blessed sun himself
the duke hath dined. Get your apparel together,
But I had rather fast from all four days
O, no; he goes into Mauritania and takes away with
I set him there, sir: but his own disorders
[Aside]  Mine honesty and I begin to square.
Exeunt QUEEN MARGARET and PRINCE EDWARD
That you shall rest but little. God forgive me,
I think I should have told your grace's tale.
But still remember what the Lord hath done.
Help to dress me, good coz, good Meg, good Ursula.
I' the dungeon by a snuff?
Enter COUNTESS and Clown
Setting your scorns and your mislike aside,
Seem they in motion? Here are sever'd lips,
rightly, is, 'I am Sir John Falstaff's.'
Here is my bed: sleep give thee all his rest!
Ay, my lord,
I do beseech you, whither is he gone?
The moon is down; I have not heard the clock.
We will before the walls of Rome tomorrow
Enter PORTIA and NERISSA
What thing! why, a thing to thank God on.
I am innocent as you.'
To be exiled, and thrown
The glasses of my sight! a beggar's tongue
Come, stand by me; fear nothing. Guard with halberds!
And I wish, my liege,
In more than this deed does require! And blessing
His hands were guilty of no kindred blood,
With terrible numbers,
Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.
Who, I? no; I defy thee: God's light, I was never
Made me to quit the house.
Tarry, good Beatrice. By this hand, I love thee.
Now give me some surance that thou art Revenge,
[Aside]  But love will not be spurr'd to what
In thy condign praise.
Exeunt severally
minority: his enter and exit shall be strangling a
Marcus, for thy sake and thy brother's here,
With gold on lasting pillars: In one voyage
I have sent twenty out to seek for you.
This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
That I, one Snout by name, present a wall;
And then I came away.
Madam, although I speak it in your presence,
Of a beloved daughter and a wife.
But I must tell you, now my thoughts revolt
Shall come again, transform'd to orient pearl,
him in his own grease. Did you ever hear the like?
A thousand complete courses of the sun!
What said he?
have been in continual practise: I shall win at the
Tell them that God bids us do good for evil:
The hour steals on; I pray you, sir, dispatch.
unsuitable to her disposition, being addicted to a
I spy a great peard under his muffler.
My lord, most humbly on my knee I beg
Enter DROMIO OF SYRACUSE
Nothing, my lord: or if--I know not what.
net.
Alas, poor fool! why do I pity him
And flies fled under shade, why, then the thing of courage
Let go.
How does he love me?
And make my image but an alehouse sign.
companion, and he steals it.
Thou detestable maw, thou womb of death,
As hounds and greyhounds, mongrels, spaniels, curs,
You are not ignorant, all-telling fame
See, see! they join, embrace, and seem to kiss,
I love not to be crossed.
And we will mend thy wages. I like this place.
But edifies another with her deeds.
Macbeth! Macbeth! Macbeth!
I have seen nothing.
I know he will be glad of our success;
My lord!
The reason that I gather he is mad,
So princes their renowns if not respected.
Did you e'er meet?
been a rod to her friends; you have not indeed loved
Any companion in the world but you,
Well, go, prepare yourself.
they are committed; and, to conclude, what you lay
My gorgeous palace for a hermitage,
For taking so the head, your whole head's length.
You, his false hopes, the trust of England's honour,
For we would give much, to use violent thefts,
They did entreat me to acquaint her of it;
As all impediments in fancy's course
Where I have seen them shiver and look pale,
Beginning in the middle, starting thence away
Our own brains, and the opinion that we bring,
The herbs that have on them cold dew o' the night
Those that Macbeth hath slain.
He goeth down
After defunction of King Pharamond,
And stay thy lady too that lives in thee,
Once for thy spritely comfort, and ten-fold
Making, to take your imagination,
Forward, I pray, since we have come so far,
I'll tell you what you shall do. Our general's wife
They quite forget their loss of liberty.
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
Remit thy other forfeits. Take him to prison;
this letter to Mistress Page; and thou this to
A blessed labour, my most sovereign liege:
Give thee her hand, for sign of plighted faith.
Exit
What, Brutus, are you stirr'd so early too?
But for some other reasons, my grave sir,
Even so. Heaven keep your honour!
ACT III
Fare thee well.
and nod at every man.
Bade her wrong stay and her displeasure fly,
Varro's Servant	I speak not to thee.
Why, I cannot name't but I shall offend.
heart as I can bid the other four farewell, I should
And make imaginary puissance;
Never yet branded with suspicion?
That can less hide his love or hate than he;
Madam, to you as many and as good:
A sweet Athenian lady is in love
Cressid comes forth to him.
Sirrah, thou art said to have a stubborn soul.
land-service, to see how the bear tore out his
I do not like her name.
That my revengeful services may prove
Which art my near'st and dearest enemy?
fed and gone. Will you come presently?
I shall not sleep in quiet at the Tower.
Must lave our honours in these flattering streams,
Exeunt
They vanish tongue-tied in their guiltiness.
Now fair befall your mask!
Being come to knowledge that there was complaint
Thy banish'd trunk be found in our dominions,
To go with us unto the officers.
a man born in April.
Enter ANTONIO
I'll rob none but myself; and let me die,
An old hare hoar,
The world was very guilty of such a ballad some
This above all: to thine ownself be true,
I hold you a penny,
But what talk we of fathers, when there is such a
He did, and from my finger snatch'd that ring.
Even as my life, or blood that fosters it.
young Master Launcelot.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MECAENAS
Who mutually hath answer'd my affection,
The French and English, there miscarried
What wills Lord Talbot pleaseth Burgundy.
Of me more must be heard of, say, I taught thee,
I say you shall.
To her foul-tainted flesh!
my suit. Give me your answer; i' faith, do: and so
Ay.
O worthy prince, dishonour not your eye
The name of honour more than I fear death.
Ay, if I ever saw him before and knew him.
We fail!
them: on the instant they got clear of our ship; so
Having displeased my father, to Laurence' cell,
All may be well; but, if God sort it so,
How now, monsieur! this drum sticks sorely in your
The gods give you joy, sir, heartily!
Forbear; here's company.
That we are awake? It seems to me
at home and be hanged.
Deliver up my Lord of Westmoreland.
knaves come to do that for me which I am aweary of.
No, my good lord, but, as you did command,
good dishes,--
Utter your gravity o'er a gossip's bowl;
I say, my lord, that if I were a man,
And danger, which I fear'd, is at Antioch,
Than to demand what 'tis. Your brother cannot live.
Wherefore that box?
Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals
And waxen in their mirth and neeze and swear
Hence! home, you idle creatures get you home:
Off, coxcomb!
Showing an outward pity; yet you Pilates
required conveniences, her delicate tenderness will
Leave me, and do the thing I bid thee do.
Hopkins, that made this mischief.
And do you now put on your best attire?
And let my woes frown on the upper hand.
In forwarding this dear expedience.
And, by the near guess of my memory,
And so all yours. O, these naughty times
Do kiss the most exalted shores of all.
But God sort all! You are welcome home, my lord.
But I had rather kill two enemies.
Shout. Flourish
Well could I leave our sport to sleep awhile.
I'll make't my comfort
Thou counterfeit'st a bark, a sea, a wind;
that you should leave me at the White Hart in
A blessed soul doth in Elysium.
And dangers are to me indifferent.
I am the last that will last keep his oath.
The queen this day here holds her parliament,
Or turn our stern upon a dreadful rock
A base Walloon, to win the Dauphin's grace,
The sweet which is their poison: your dishonour
else you may be marvellously mistook.
I will deny thee nothing:
With greasy aprons, rules, and hammers, shall
With entertaining great Hyperion.
Dies not alone; but, like a gulf, doth draw
Cannot be heard so high. I'll look no more;
This field-bed is too cold for me to sleep:
Full merrily
humility over the black gown of a big heart. I am
For following her affairs. Put in his legs.
If music be the food of love, play on;
Let sapphire, pearl and rich embroidery,
Our chariots and our horsemen be in readiness:
duke: you know the character, I doubt not; and the
That shows the ignorant a kind of fear
And on my eyelids shall conjecture hang,
Your presence glads our days: honour we love;
Speak for yourselves; my wit is at an end.
And doth impeach the freedom of the state,
True! pow, wow.
The son, compell'd, been butcher to the sire:
I'll get me to a place more void, and there
Of the defendant; and thou hast incurr'd
I will see you hanged, like clotpoles, ere I come
What need one?
I am thine.
Shake off this downy sleep, death's counterfeit,
The purposes I bear; which are, or cease,
And to be shortly of a sisterhood,
behavior of the country is most mockable at the
You shall prevail,
Hail, Dian! to perform thy just command,
This letter is mistook, it importeth none here;
And swell so much the higher by their ebb.
Dost thou entreat me, Hector?
Lovers, to bed; 'tis almost fairy time.
For my part, I'll resign unto your grace
My sober house. By Jacob's staff, I swear,
And I in fury hither follow'd them,
I'll serve you, sir, five hundred at the rate.
To the Secretary
Lack blood to think on't, and flush youth revolt:
Go, go; you are a counterfeit cowardly knave. Will
But thou must needs be sure
And now, young lords, was't not a happy star
SCENE I. Before PAGE'S house.
A face without a heart?
I'll give thee, ere I leave thee, so much money,
I have a venturous fairy that shall seek
that her eyes ran o'er.
My friends of noble touch, when I am forth,
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
Good sister, let us dine and never fret:
eye or so, but not to the purpose. Signior
'Enough, enough,' and die. That thing you speak of,
O no, he lives; but is took prisoner,
that thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him
Enter CORIOLANUS, AUFIDIUS, and others
To-morrow night, when Phoebe doth behold
To cull the plots of best advantages:
Yes, truly; I speak not as desiring more;
A whoreson mad fellow's it was: whose do you think it was?
No child but Hero; she's his only heir.
But say, I prithee, is he coming home? It seems he
Your son in Scotland being thus employ'd,
What, a feast, a feast?
not in't; but they themselves are o' the mind, if it
Wishes were ever fools,--O, come, come, come;
Used intercession to obtain a league,
the first cock.
hate us youth: down with them: fleece them.
And doleful dumps the mind oppress,
treacherous,
Know, then, that some of us are gentlemen,
Lean famine, quartering steel, and climbing fire;
The hazard of much blood.
he out of Venice, I can make what merchandise I
And rest your gentle head upon her lap,
Never lack'd gold and yet went never gay,
And here have I the daintiness of ear
SCENE III. A chapel in PAULINA'S house.
Thus hath the candle singed the moth.
O my dear lord,
That the strict fates had pleased you had brought her hither,
Take thou thy Silvia, for thou hast deserved her.
For so run the conditions, leave those remnants
A leg of Rome shall not return to tell
Ay, and wisely.
sold among those of any wit, like a barbarian slave.
Give me a case to put my visage in:
Enter Clown, and PAROLLES, following
Do calm the fury of this mad-bred flaw.
Speak that,--
the seaside, browsing of ivy. Good luck, an't be thy
Try what repentance can: what can it not?
Marry, sir, I come to speak with Sir John Falstaff
Your tender kinsman and to choke his days
But in the other's silence do I see
Let Somerset be regent over the French,
How appears the fight?
Wherein thou liest in reputation sick;
I am sure the duke
And, knowing whom it was their hap to save,
Coin words till their decay against those measles,
You'll find a most unfit time to disturb him:
And gratulate his safe return to Rome,
As every loyal subject ought to do.
The 'solus' in thy most mervailous face;
Re-enter CORIOLANUS
Distasted with the salt of broken tears.
Else ne'er could they hold out so as they do.
Madam, good night: commend me to your daughter.
I pray she may; as well for the encouragement of the
heart to repent. Here he comes: I pray you, make
Lewis marry Blanch! O boy, then where art thou?
Some haunted by the ghosts they have deposed;
Crams his rich thievery up, he knows not how:
Here is the money.
THE MADLY-USED MALVOLIO.'
Those thoughts to me were oaks, to thee like
You'll never meet a more sufficient man.
If haply won, perhaps a hapless gain;
You would not do me violence.
Be grafted to your relish. Yet welcome, warriors:
His arms spread wider than a dragon's wings;
With burthens of the dead;--some that were hang'd,
And put on fear and cast yourself in wonder,
Why?
But, noble as he is, look where he comes.
But I return his sworn and mortal foe:
I am solicited, not by a few,
Exit
plainly, Claudio undergoes my challenge; and either
By whose direction found'st thou out this place?
And whom, by heaven I swear, I tender dearly,
'Faith, some do, and some do not. But, mistress, if
Were but my trials of thy love and thou
And as the dam runs lowing up and down,
'Twixt you there's difference; but the fall of either
Go thou to Friar Penker; bid them both
He was a gentleman on whom I built
I chanced on this letter.
And to say so no more.
That in their country did them that disgrace,
mouth. Therefore, precisely, can you carry your
To hurl upon their heads that break his law.
ACT V
To orderly soliciting, and be friended
The outward habit by the inward man.
Pioners and all, had tasted her sweet body,
Lend me the flourish of all gentle tongues,--
And time hath worn us into slovenry:
At Patrick's cell this even; and there she was not;
Against what man thou comest, and what thy quarrel:
call for him at supper, you will make his excuse.
Be comforted:
The duke is made protector of the realm;
Swear by my sword.
Which writ his honour in the acts it did,
No more be done:
A prison for a debtor, that not dares
And will he not come again?
I am much bounden to your majesty.
Whither I am going.
If it do come to pass
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part:
Ho, Guildenstern! bring in my lord.
I mean to utter it, or both yourself and me
Who, cherish'd in your breasts, will sting
That he ran mad and died.
I wonder now how yonder city stands
Where the dead corpse of Bassianus lay:
Should find a running banquet ere they rested,
And wilt thou pluck my fair son from mine age,
continued in it some time. You say, seven years together?
But this is worshipful society
Well, we shall then know more; and Buckingham
The most disdain'd of fortune.
All will be naught else.
We will have vengeance for it, fear thou not:
O, fear him not;
God give your graces both
before him.
Nor how to be contented with one wife,
Call you me daughter? now, I promise you
Though it appear a little out of fashion,
Yes, in good faith.
SCENE III. Troy. Before Priam's palace.
And knows not how to do it but with tears.
But O, the thorns we stand upon! Camillo,
fear and danger, that his personal return was
But ere sunset I'll make thee curse the deed.
Whiles we, God's wrathful agent, do correct
And knows all qualities, with a learned spirit,
not so much as a ducat for delivering your letter:
By this sun that shines,
Walk in the orchard and our whole discourse
Like a poor beggar, raileth on the rich.
goodness, that the dissolution of it must cure it:
So, sir, heartily well met, and most glad of your company.
Truly, sir, I would desire you to clap into your
And what's in prayer but this two-fold force,
By the pattern of mine own thoughts I cut out
And will maintain what thou hast said is false
I will not peace. What is the matter, Aumerle.
Thy father's ground.
It stands your grace upon to do him right.
We'll take your offer kindly.
To royalize his blood I spilt mine own.
So may he with more facile question bear it,
I'll do, I'll do, and I'll do.
Come, madam, you must straight to Westminster,
that they make, the devils mar five.
Second Serving-man	And so will I.
That of yourself which you yet know not of.
I have a servant comes with me along,
demonstration of grief?
presently; where, for one shot of five pence, thou
bear it for a difference between himself and his
An if he will come to me.
looking out at the window.
in company of the Marquis of Montferrat?
Enter MENENIUS, COMINIUS, SICINIUS, BRUTUS, and others
Enter DIOMEDES
For Imogen's dear life take mine; and though
O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread,
Which on my faith deserves high speech, and straight
restrained to keep him from stumbling, hath been
elder-gun, that a poor and private displeasure can
very conveyances of his lands will hardly lie in
odds. But thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
Among the route of nations, I will make thee
Where all those pleasures live that art would
thee further.
And that thou art so, there I throw my gage,
Thou must.
Is't near dinner-time?
The duke my father loved his father dearly.
Do you wish then that the gods had made me poetical?
Flatterers! Now, Brutus, thank yourself:
I like thee well: wilt thou forsake thy fortune,
Pluck down benches.
Monday, my lord,
And pray thee take this mercy to provide
Govern'd a wolf, who, hang'd for human slaughter,
[Reads]            Hermione, queen to the worthy
Ran mad through sorrow: that made me to fear;
Well, sir, I'll bring you to our master Lear,
You have seen and proved a fairer former fortune
Myself and my good cousin Buckingham
Success or loss, what is or is not, serves
That like a father you will deal with him
With your derision! none of noble sort
Why, thou sayest well. I do now remember a saying,
Perchance, my lord, I show more craft than love;
Wrench awe from fools and tie the wiser souls
A contract of eternal bond of love,
[Aside]  But now of late, notable to travel with her
That, when the exigent should come, which now
her succor, which were the hope o' the Strand, where
Do grow beneath their shoulders. This to hear
Signior Bassanio!
And thus awhile the fit will work on him;
Must he be then as shadow of himself?
Or we'll burst them open, if that you come not quickly.
How now, Simple! where have you been? I must wait
How now, fair shepherd!
'Tis new to thee.
Are all unfolded wherein he appears
For you, mistress,
Which on more view, of many mine being one
So you had need; for Orleans is besieged;
She's not well married that lives married long;
Enough: my soul shall then be satisfied.
You have great reason to do Richard right;
Never yet did base dishonour blur our name,
And shamed life a hateful.
serve him still.
Hold, take my sword. There's husbandry in heaven;
abridgement
What, my young master? O, my gentle master!
The king hath dispossess'd himself of us:
But twice or thrice was 'Proteus' written down.
Exit
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
Dissolve, thick cloud, and rain; that I may say,
How Falstaff, varlet vile,
should be a cuckold, held his hand. Well: on went he
And let it be more than Alcides' twelve.
With Pindarus his bondman, on this hill.
They'll pawn their swords for my enfranchisement.
That ever was prince's child. Happy what follows!
coward, this bed-presser, this horseback-breaker,
Why should a man be proud? How doth pride grow? I
finds it so.
conscience, there are verier knaves desire to live,
Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.
And, now I fall, thy tough commixture melts.
Though his right arm might purchase his own time
Now, good sweet nurse,--O Lord, why look'st thou sad?
oaths of him and might not spend them at my pleasure.
Held current music too.
Exit
And in their ears tell them my dreadful name,
Come, I'll go see this Italian: what I have lost
Thou hast, Ventidius,
And in the morning early will we both
This seven years did not Talbot see his son;
Pyrrhus at Priam drives; in rage strikes wide;
I am content: provide me soldiers, lords,
What you have nobly done.
doth my simple feature content you?
I do note
Unloading of his mules.
Give me thy arm:
That the sense aches at thee, would thou hadst
How holily he works in all his business!
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
'Tis a good form.
That judgment cannot cure. Which thing to do,
How, my lord, I may be censured, that nature thus
May it be gently heard: when we debate
Is for my better grace. Adieu, my lord:
When thou hast broke it in so dear degree?
But, I beseech you, what's become of Katharine,
'em good shipping! But who is here? mine old
But she, your subject, loathes such sovereignty.
Sir Robert's son! Ay, thou unreverend boy,
He would not stay at your petitions: made
How now, Sir William! whither were you sent?
So for her many a wight did die,
Ducks to the golden fool: all is oblique;
For me three thousand ducats.
With this ungracious paper strike the sight
with vanity. I would to God thou and I knew where a
Is now a widower.
How easily murder is discovered!
Thou art a cure fit for a king.
But few now give so great ones. My barge stays;
Hast thou, which art but air, a touch, a feeling
You give away heaven's vows, and those are mine;
I am no villain.
I should do so: you shall be miss'd at court,
men.
To which the Grecians are most prompt and pregnant:
I will have my revenge ere I depart his house.
Ha!
A traitor you do look like; but such traitors
That our devices still are overthrown;
That he suspects none: on whose foolish honesty
'This is no flattery: these are counsellors
But my arrival and my wife's in safety
Now to that name my courage prove my title!
Finding thee fit for bloody villany,
Bind him, I say.
Slack the bolins there! Thou wilt not, wilt thou?
velvet on's face: whether there be a scar under't
Here at the palace I will rest awhile.
Fear me not: withdraw, I hear him coming.
O wise young judge, how I do honour thee!
Speak no more of her. Give me a bowl of wine.
You know me by my habit.
O, she was nought; and long of her it was
Once more I'll mark how love can vary wit.
Can he be there in person? 'tis impossible;
To stop the rumor, and allay those tongues
He hath indeed, almost natural: for besides that
sport will be, when they hold one an opinion of
So mainly as my merit: I cannot sing,
Now is this golden crown like a deep well
May token to the future our past deeds.
Most bloody, fiery, and most terrible.
This is the way to kindle, not to quench.
Ah, simple men, you know not what you swear!
His daughter's trial! that he did but see
To line and new repair our towns of war
O thou eternal Mover of the heavens.
Stay your thanks a while;
It is merely a lust of the blood and a permission of
Between Lord Perigort and the beauteous heir
Had his necessity made use of me,
Ay, madam, from the reach of these my hands:
My fleece of woolly hair that now uncurls
cut of a certain courtier's beard: he sent me word,
Geese, villain!
us our sins!--Gentlemen, let's look to our business.
Why do you speak so startingly and rash?
Are drown'd and lost in his calamities.
And in his grave rain'd many a tear:--
Because the king is certainly possess'd
As it is spoke, she never will admit me.
[Kneeling]              It is my duty
Now, brother Richard, will you stand by us?
Behold thy fill.
To take off so much grief from you as he
Lucentio, 'hic est,' son unto Vincentio of Pisa,
Or flourish to the height of my degree.
If you but knew how you the purpose cherish
Master Froth?
To try the vigour of them and apply
Strangers and foes do sunder, and not kiss.
That those whom you call'd fathers did beget you.
O Lord, sir! spare not me.
Ay, but you must confine yourself within the modest
In many singularities; but we saw not
Or ne'er return again into my sight.
I have convey'd aboard; and I have bought
Make rash remonstrance of my hidden power
Wherefore she does, and swears she'll never stint,
the Bunch of Grapes, where indeed you have a delight
The curfew-bell hath rung, 'tis three o'clock:
And in the fountain shall we gaze so long
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
Your rule direct to any; if to me.
She is a most sweet lady.
ANTIPHOLUS
Their minds may change. Besides, it were a mock
Like a good parent, did beget of him
So to be false with her.
Did I put Henry from his native right?
Our ancestor was that Mulmutius which
this woman.
And, for my wife, I know not how it stands;
Or look on thine; we could not stall together
And let him ne'er see joy that breaks that oath!
Thy wife, too! that's some wrong, indeed. What's
That I did suit me all points like a man?
For strokes received, and many blows repaid,
Even to the utmost grain: that you shall read
To break into this dangerous argument,--
the heels for a rabbit-sucker or a poulter's hare.
Ay, mistress, and Petruchio is the master;
Bark when their fellows do: by some of these
Let go thy hand.
And I have been all this day to avoid him. He is
Lord Douglas, go you and tell him so.
Now will I lead you to the house, and show you
As jewels purchased at an easy price;
grey iniquity, that father ruffian, that vanity in
For what you see is but the smallest part
ANTIPHOLUS
My lord's almost so far transported that
O, that delightful engine of her thoughts
Tyrannical power: if he evade us there,
She swore, in faith, twas strange, 'twas passing strange,
Unless a brother should a brother dare
After a voyage, he hath strange places cramm'd
ingenious, foolish, rascally knave. I do pity his
And may enjoy such quiet walks as these?
To tell your grace, that, having heard by fame
My master's enemy.
And those thy fears might have wrought fears in me:
The bidding of the fullest man, and worthiest
opportunity to be required, look you, I will be so
will carry't.
chooses you, will, no doubt, never be chosen by any
To-morrow then I will expect your coming;
Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING
No, Cassius; for the eye sees not itself,
remembered of it, the Welshmen did good service in a
Are lethargied--Ha! waking? 'tis not so.
You left poor Henry at the Bishop's palace,
are able and yet reserve an ability that they never
As willingly as one would kill a fly,
their faction: but it was a strong composure a fool
To show his sorrow, he'ld correct himself;
It doth remember me the more of sorrow;
And these same thoughts people this little world,
Of guns and drums and wounds,--God save the mark!--
The king my brother shall have note of this.
To ROSS and ANGUS
The prayers of priests nor times of sacrifice,
I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir
O, peace! Contemplation makes a rare turkey-cock
This cheers my heart, to see your forwardness.
A fearful army, led by Caius Marcius
o'ershower'd,
And, having sworn truth, ever will be true.
Good man, those joyful tears show thy true heart:
Think you so? Which way do you judge my wit would
How he comes o'er us with our wilder days,
For there it is, crack'd in a hundred shivers.
But can do more in England than the king.
A place whereto you'll go?
Enter HENRY PERCY, and the BISHOP OF CARLISLE
He should or he should not; for he made me mad
Yet grace must still look so.
Striking him
Enter HENRY PERCY
fellows are perfect in the great commanders' names:
I will make it good how you dare, with what you
Nay, press not so upon me; stand far off.
That such a thing bechanced would make me sad?
All fears attending on so dire a project.
with a sad brow? or do you play the flouting Jack,
Norfolk, for thee remains a heavier doom,
And yonder shines Aurora's harbinger;
Exeunt
See him pluck Aufidius down by the hair,
You have stayed me in a happy hour: I was about to
this slaughter: besides, they have burned and
'Twill make us proud to be his servant, Paris;
When from the mountain-top Pisanio show'd thee,
drink, and fear not your man.
What, was I married to her in my dream?
Shall fly out of itself: nor sleep nor sanctuary,
With horn and hound we'll give your grace bonjour.
My lords, you know, as know the mightful gods,
These are the city gates, the gates of Rouen,
Wouldst thou have thy head broken?
I do invest you jointly with my power,
Clarence and Gloucester, love my lovely queen;
riot; take your vizaments in that.
Thus, Brutus, did my master bid me kneel:
Verily, I speak it in the freedom of my knowledge:
Sir, call me what thou darest.
Iago, look with care about the town,
Than misery itself would give; rewards
Was my dear friend: what malice was between you?
So I might have your company in hell,
You taking airs, with lameness!
Advancing
Remember March, the ides of March remember:
you are asked this question next, say 'a
Hoodman comes! Portotartarosa
so, I cannot reprove it; and wise, but for loving
valorous, and thrice-worthy signieur of England.
I tell you what, Captain Gower; I do perceive he is
Nay, stay; by Jove, I will not speak a word:
Your looks are pale and wild, and do import
Opening the leaden casket
Your special mandate for the state-affairs
cloud, yond huge one, looks like a foul
And all this I give you. Let me be your servant:
I do believe it.
I dare say you love him not so ill, to wish him here
Staring full ghastly like a strangled man;
Hear but my name, and tremble.
If we have lost so many tenths of ours,
Be thus when thou art dead, and I will kill thee,
lodging, from whence I will fitly bring you to
What is he that you ask for, niece?
All sorts of hearts; yea, from the glass-faced flatterer
of ambition, an envious emulator of every man's
West of this place, down in the neighbour bottom:
I must needs tell thee all. She hath directed
up watch, or play with my--some rich jewel. Toby
And without trial fell; God's peace be with him!
He goes forth gallantly. That he and Caesar might
You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
impatience: the gods reward your kindness!
To tell my story.
And see another, as I see thee now,
The Lords rise from table, with much adoring of  TIMON; and to show their loves, each singles out an  Amazon, and all dance, men with women, a lofty strain or two to the hautboys, and cease
Though yet she speak not. Mark a little while.
Swear thou art honest.
To say the dead are well: bring it to that,
I see things too, although you judge I wink.
Would cry to a sailor, Go hang!
Out of the chamber with her! Were I a tyrant,
If any ship put out, then straight away.
Exeunt
How do you mean, removing of him?
Than breath or pen can give expressure to:
Sir, there is a fray to be fought between Sir Hugh
And bid me be advised how I tread.
That thou but lead'st this fashion of thy malice
undone till he be hanged, nor never welcome to a
And I'll be sworn you would believe my saying,
I was contracted to them both: all three
Alas, poor soul!
That's clapp'd upon the court-gate.
Exit Poet
Stand close awhile, for here comes one in haste.
For breathing and exploit.
Support him by the arm. Give me your hand,
Or stones whose rates are either rich or poor
Applaud the name of Henry with your leader.
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
He meant he did me none; the more my spite.
Now, good sir,
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
what hast thou there under thy cloak, pretty Flaminius?
Boy sings
You have a daughter call'd Elizabeth,
Great king, within this coffin I present
Exit, led out forcibly
the loathed warmth whereof deliver me, and supply
a prop? Do you know me, father?
But now two paces of the vilest earth
Let not your ears despise my tongue for ever,
For God he knows, and you may partly see,
To breathe the abundant dolour of the heart.
Shall falter under foul rebellion's arms.
and boy, thirty years.
God save you, gentlemen!
This ensign here of mine was turning back;
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
And his love Thisbe; very tragical mirth.'
The Earl of Pembroke keeps his regiment:
If it be mine,
What things again most dear in the esteem
To answer for his love, tell him from me
countenance my mistress.
And see his shipwreck and his commonweal's.
Dearer than Plutus' mine, richer than gold:
Go you and enter Harfleur; there remain,
In the day's glorious walk, or peaceful night,
Why, then thou canst not break her to the lute?
About what?
The same you are not, which, for your best ends,
After I have done what I promised?
That lack'd sight only, nought for approbation
In that behalf which we have challenged it?
Enter LADY FAULCONBRIDGE and GURNEY
will deliver his wife into your hand. Follow.
I should love thee but as a property.
Who long'st, like me, to see thy lord; who long'st,--
Would you had hit it too!
How shall I fashion me to wear a cloak?
Falls shrewdly to the purpose.
Thou hast some suit to Caesar, hast thou not?
Beseech your honour
Hang there, my verse, in witness of my love:
Nature and Fortune join'd to make thee great:
Divinest creature, Astraea's daughter,
Or, whilst I can vent clamour from my throat,
you flout old ends any further, examine your
Though far more cause, yet much less spirit to curse
And by the second hour in the morning
For him that brought it: wretched though I seem,
SCENE VI. A chamber in a farmhouse adjoining the castle.
An empty casket, where the jewel of life
My dearest wife was like this maid, and such a one
I see report is fabulous and false:
Here lacks but your mother for to say amen.
thoughts beget hot deeds, and hot deeds is love.
Then is your cause gone too. The duke's unjust,
Music
Depress'd he is already, and deposed
He is, my lord, and safe in Leicester town;
Or for some frontier?
Why looks your grace so heavily today?
the rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me--with two
Madam, I was.
And may direct his course as please himself,
[Aside to ISABELLA]  O, to him, to him, wench! he
As to Jove's statue, and the commons made
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
And that you not delay the present, but,
Sperr up the sons of Troy.
Attend me, then: I went to Antioch,
[Aside to DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS]  What does he mean?
but forth to wash him in the Hellespont and being
a bench, but he'll speak with you.
Here come those I have done good to against my will,
The sums I have collected shall express.
A name that in my thoughts becomes me best,
No, Caesar, we will answer on their charge.
Why, may one ask?
This way fall I to death.
To come into his presence.
That she is worthy, I know.
Be quite contrary: and thatch your poor thin roofs
And never interrupt you.
Crave leave to view these ladies and entreat
And keep us all in servile fearfulness.
[Aside]  If his wit had been like him that broke it,
should counterfeit too and rise? by my faith, I am
By Chrish, la! tish ill done: the work ish give
Thee I'll chase hence, thou wolf in sheep's array.
I think there be six Richmonds in the field;
And afterward consort you till bed-time:
We will unite the white rose and the red:
Dromio, what stuff of mine hast thou embark'd?
Send quickly down to tame these vile offences,
Most sweet queen,--
Our human generation you shall find
Back, slave, or I will break thy pate across.
I'll never follow thy pall'd fortunes more.
for conscience sake, to help to get thee a wife.
So:
This it is:
To LUCIO
Let us complain to them what fools were here,
No wars without doors: Caesar gets money where
Exit
Enter TROILUS and ULYSSES, at a distance; after them, THERSITES
Cutting a smaller hair than may be seen,
Go to; away!
With twenty thousand kisses, and to drain
Where he should find you lions, finds you hares;
Till we do hear from them.
much drink; sorry that you have paid too much, and
Briefly, I dwell by the Capitol.
pays you as surely as your feet hit the ground they
Our Caesar's vesture wounded? Look you here,
the sea was my sister drowned.
forbid her my house? She comes of errands, does
I know not what: 'tis the heart, Master Page; 'tis
Ay, let her rot, and perish, and be damned to-night;
To woo a maid in way of marriage: Lastly,
'Tis meet I should be used so, very meet.
His words come from his mouth, ours from our breast:
That she may boast she hath beheld the man
[Aside]  He speaks the mere contrary; crosses love not him.
Thy brat hath been cast out, like to itself,
But if you would consider the true cause
My noble lord,--
you have sworn to me. What, are you gone again?
Good name in man and woman, dear my lord,
Because thou hast no face.
I'll be sworn 'tis true; he will weep you, an 'twere
their tribunes for ever. This lies glowing, I can
O noble father, you lament in vain:
Come, come, thou boy-queller, show thy face;
Now, afore God--God forbid I say true!--
medicine to a mortifying mischief. I cannot hide
Hated by one he loves; braved by his brother;
Our faith mere folly: yet he that can endure
He, when he hears of her, cannot refrain
MARCIUS is shut in
And when such time they have begun to cry,
I cannot nor I will not yield to you.
And thus far clear him. Now, what moved me to't,
No bargains break that are not this day made:
No less importing than our general good,
Recover'd is the town of Orleans:
This is my doing, now: 'Nay,' said I, 'will you cast
Whate'er you think, good words, I think, were best.
How, my pretty York? I pray thee, let me hear it.
But there is little reason in your grief;
Lord, what fools these mortals be!
But that we enter, as into our dukedom?
Yerk out their armed heels at their dead masters,
And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer,
sound, upon my life, amounts not to fifteen thousand
Of you their captives, which ourself have granted:
to sea again. Let's be revenged on him: let's
Thou art rash as fire, to say
friend, your brother Troilus,--
And lay new platforms to endamage them.
The soil's fertility from wholesome flowers.
O, no! alas, I rather hate myself
Why, I can teach you, cousin, to command
To be the aim of every dangerous shot,
But what is not.
O, matter and impertinency mix'd! Reason in madness!
To her let us garlands bring.
The ocean swells not so as Aaron storms.
lost his A B C; to weep, like a young wench that had
I' the name of something holy, sir, why stand you
When Marcus Brutus grows so covetous,
Well, thou hast comforted me marvellous much.
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, SLENDER, Host, SIR HUGH EVANS, DOCTOR CAIUS, and RUGBY
And all Europa shall rejoice at thee,
I durst, my lord, to wager she is honest,
Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
Exeunt ESCALUS and Provost
In a wall'd prison, packs and sects of great ones,
No, nor mine now.
We have deserved it.
But not a sceptre to control the world:
To such a lowness but his unkind daughters.
Robs me of that which not enriches him
By the sure physician, death, who is the key
Lovell!
Cease to lament for that thou canst not help,
Whether that thy youth and kind
That island of England breeds very valiant
Is cold in amity and painted peace,
One Julia, that his changing thoughts forget,
I am desperate of my fortunes if they cheque me here.
High birth, vigour of bone, desert in service,
Ned, I give thee this pennyworth of sugar, clapped
With cheese and garlic in a windmill, far,
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY, SIMPLE, and RUGBY
Honour'd with confirmation your great judgment
Enter two Murderers
Now these her princes are come home again,
I do not bid the thunder-bearer shoot,
Good morrow.
The splinter of a lance. Even so much.
gallows is built stronger than the church: argal,
Cressida's?
No, not these twenty years.
sack: and fear not, neighbour, you shall do well enough.
And welcome to our shearing!
Unless thou think'st me devilish--is't not meet
Of other men's secrets, I beseech you.
As good to die and go, as die and stay.
Yea, the elect o' the land, who are assembled
And strain what other means is left unto us
Basely insinuate and send us gifts.
What's the matter?
And fortune, on his damned quarrel smiling,
Big Mars seems bankrupt in their beggar'd host
Enter OSWALD
All good people,
And say what thou seest yond.
never take her without her answer, unless you take
And take deep traitors for thy dearest friends!
To beg of thee, it is my more dishonour
'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself unknown,
which is politic, nor the lady's, which is nice, nor
Between the elements of air and earth,
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
But, on my honour, she was charged with nothing
Villain, I'll make thee safe.
Exeunt
Our Romeo hath not been in bed to-night.
[Aside to TROILUS]  Follow his torch; he goes to
To heave the traitor Somerset from hence,
lost by nature.
Under the colour of commending him,
Enter BASSANIO, with LEONARDO and other followers
ANTIPHOLUS
Are cast away and sunk on Goodwin Sands.
Of her that loves him with that excellence
A master-leaver and a fugitive:
Prosperity be thy page!
So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
Go whip him, 'fore the people's eyes:--his raising;
Whilst my gross flesh sinks downward, here to die.
But say that he or we, as neither have,
You know your mother means to feast with me,
What say'st thou to her?
Give it the beasts, to be rid of the men.
Thy honour, state and seat is due to me.
And, moreover, bully,--but first, master guest, and
And what is music then? Then music is
Help us to sigh and groan,
Would scatter all her spices on the stream,
So may the outward shows be least themselves:
Marcus, attend him in his ecstasy,
By uproar sever'd, like a flight of fowl
But, soft! I think she comes; and I'll prepare
What worser place can I beg in your love,--
neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
now is he become a man: he swore he would never
Ay, as some days; but then no sun must shine.
That I have passed.
A good note; that keeps you from the blow of the law.
How did he take it? who did taste to him?
Make bold her bashful years with your experience;
All gold and silver rather turn to dirt!
With half their forces the full Pride of France
It must be so; for miracles are ceased;
I speak not to that railing Hecate,
ANTIPHOLUS
I have no superfluous leisure; my stay must be
Now seems to it. Your patience this allowing,
Vows for thee broke deserve not punishment.
Tybalt, the reason that I have to love thee
This comes off well; here's a wise officer.
Madam, he sends your ladyship this ring.
King Lear hath lost, he and his daughter ta'en:
To the Venetian state. Come, bring him away.
Armado o' th' one side,--O, a most dainty man!
Found out the remedy. How would you be,
How he determines further.
other men? Do so, I have gold for thee.
But when I came to man's estate,
It fits, when such a villain is a guest:
him; and a third drowns him.
To be my child Cordelia.
With patches, colours, and with forms being fetch'd
Of female favour, and bestows himself
True.
The very heart of kindness.
wear thy heart in a scarf!
And, which was strange, the one so like the other,
I pray you, come, hold up the jest no higher
For then my guiltless blood must cry against 'em.
Exit
I banish her my bed and company
We will not fly, but to our enemies' throats.
And little is to do.
Will so your accusation overweigh,
Am bound to under-bear.
Enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS and EROS, meeting
What is granted them?
Nor I; I would not there reside,
Exasperates, makes mad her sister Goneril;
O, cry you mercy, sir, I have mistook:
'Tis York that hath more reason for his death.
And, to that dauntless temper of his mind,
on her, for they ride up and down on her and make
Descends
That's seal'd in approbation? You, Lord Escalus,
To give each naked curtle-axe a stain,
And generally to the crown and seat of France
May that ground gape and swallow me alive,
the form of a beast. O Jove, a beastly fault! And
Under the which he shall not choose but fall:
How now, mad spirit!
'Faith, for the worst is filthy; and would not hold
Certainly
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and Clown
And love you 'gainst the nature of love,--force ye.
Exit
To sparkle in the spirits of my daughter,
O nature, what hadst thou to do in hell,
Is all our travail turn'd to this effect?
Extremity of griefs would make men mad;
With all their sixty, fly and turn the rudder:
Your plainness and your shortness please me well.
Too terrible for the ear: the times have been,
conduit of many kings' reigns. I never heard of such
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, reading a letter, LEPIDUS, and their Train
Yes, one place else, if you will hear me name it.
O, welcome, father!
SCENE I. The French King's pavilion.
This is my fault: as for the rest appeall'd,
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
There let them bide until we have devised
seen the day of wrong through the little hole of
In remembrance of a shroud.
Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves: to
Come, go we then together.
Yet that is but a crush'd necessity,
In mine eye she is the sweetest lady that ever I
I'll speak a prophecy ere I go:
This is his tent; and see where stand his guard.
Then came each actor on his ass,--
Exit
I would not lose you; and you know yourself,
That give heaven countless eyes to view men's acts,
I seem'd his follower, not partner, and
Give us the proudest prisoner of the Goths,
dispatch us here under this tree, or shall we go
Upon the love you bear me, get you in.
Never pray more; abandon all remorse;
And ask'd the mayor what meant this wilful silence:
Had hoisted sail and put to sea to-day:
Shall make it good, or do his best to do it,
And justly too, I think, you fear the tyrant,
CARDINAL
rather, ostentare, to show, as it were, his
Marina thus the brothel 'scapes, and chances
Thou'st made me cuckold.
For so I see she must be, 'fore Leontes:
Into a strumpet's fool: behold and see.
a-wooing, 'Priami,' is my man Tranio, 'regia,'
What dowry shall I have with her to wife?
He straight declined, droop'd, took it deeply,
Go to my steward.
What, do you tremble? are you all afraid?
stabbed their mothers, they would have done no less.
Let your remembrance apply to Banquo;
A prize no less in worth: keep this man safe;
But say this weed her love from Valentine,
An oath that I have sworn. I will not break it:
Be it so.
What dreadful noise of waters in mine ears!
'Tis his description.
I thank it. More, I prithee, more. I can suck
His realm a slaughter-house, his subjects slain,
The three-fold world divided, he should stand
Why does be ask him of me?
Why, your herb-woman; she that sets seeds and roots
Without the sensible and true avouch
Five hundred ducats, villain, for a rope?
come under one body's hand.
If there be any cunning cruelty
Good morrow, brother Bedford. God Almighty!
and the worst fall that ever fell, I hope I shall
Well, well, come on: who else?
What's your will, father
the ort 'dissolutely:' the ort is, according to our
Must have inventions to delight the taste,
flower-de-luce?
Man and wife:
Now, blessing on thee! rise; thou art my child.
To cry 'Hold, hold!'
As upright as the cedar.
Would thou wert clean enough to spit upon!
I derived liberty.
Alarum afar off
Thy master thus with pleach'd arms, bending down
With purple falchion, painted to the hilt
For if Lord Percy thrive not, ere the king
So, so, so, so: they laugh that win.
My fear hath catch'd your fondness: now I see
But he bears both the sentence and the sorrow
Lords, let him go. Please it your majesty,
heaven forgive my sins at the day of judgment!
Go, get you home, you fragments!
By many a dern and painful perch
[Beating him]  You cur!
'Tis time must do. Beseech your majesty,
If he can carry't thus!
We shall be joyful of thy company.
Encore qu'il est contre son jurement de pardonner
excommunication and meet me at the gaol.
Goose, if I had you upon Sarum plain,
And she shall scant show well that now shows best.
The deepest loathing to the stomach brings,
If with his tongue he cannot win a woman.
The trap is laid for me!
Ah, Joan, sweet daughter Joan, I'll die with thee!
Mean and right poor, for that pure blood of mine
You bring me to do, and then you flout me too.
Exeunt ALCIBIADES and Lords
We from the west will send destruction
O reverend tribunes! O gentle, aged men!
And so swear I, my lord
Mark how short his answer is;--With Hero, Leonato's
When black-faced Clifford shook his sword at him;
with man, woman, or child.
And make the wars alike against my stomach,
Enter PISTOL and Hostess
My soul to heaven, my blood upon your heads!
Sword, I will hollow thee for this thy deed,
From Troy.
Thisne;' 'Ah, Pyramus, lover dear! thy Thisby dear,
Knocking within
Either forbear,
wenches' song, that he would not stir his pettitoes
Vouch with me, heaven, I therefore beg it not,
Let me see.
They are, as all my other comforts, far hence
Do not rise yet.
I know but of a single part, in aught
Look, and thou shalt see.
To get slips of them.
His mother shames him so, poor boy, he weeps.
Ah, Rome! Well, well; I made thee miserable
Mine, and most of our fortunes, to-night, shall
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
You cannot show me.
paid you more, which will shame you to give him again.
Thy flatterers yet wear silk, drink wine, lie soft;
Upon supposed fairness, often known
The law that threaten'd death becomes thy friend
Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs,
I am a man again. Pray you, sit still.
When was my lord so much ungently temper'd,
vulgar wit!
Show me the way of yielding.
That thou wouldst tremble to receive thyself.
Herself and hers are highly bound to thee.
Heralds, from off our towers we might behold,
This, my last boon, give me,
Or else you get no beef of Grumio.
Enter PROTEUS
For what I bid them do: for we bid this be done,
O' the dreadful thunder-claps, more momentary
Most thoroughly for my father.
Great Dunsinane he strongly fortifies:
As you'll have her.
Exit with DORCAS and MOPSA
Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves,
So all hail, Macbeth and Banquo!
Then, noble York, take thou this task in hand.
Enter EGLAMOUR
gabble enough, and good enough. As for you,
How proud I am of thee and of thy gifts
railed at herself, that she should be so immodest
Or did the letters work upon his blood,
That broker, that still breaks the pate of faith,
And you, good brother father. What offence hath
Drinks to HORTENSIO
With honour and with fortune is return'd
In breaking faith with Julia whom I loved:
Better than he have worn Vulcan's badge.
But if you mind to hold your true obedience,
Would not have been so stern.
That thou thyself was born in bastardy;
Simois,' I know you not, 'hic est Sigeia tellus,' I
That had nine hours lien dead,
Had I been seized by a hungry lion,
his spurs so long. How does he carry himself?
Hysterica passio, down, thou climbing sorrow,
She gave strange oeillades and most speaking looks
When majesty stoops to folly. Reverse thy doom;
Or than for strength and safety of our country.
The casting forth to crows thy baby-daughter
Drum and colours. Enter KING HENRY, GLOUCESTER, and Soldiers
Will you make me believe that I am not sent for you?
A gentleman, nurse, that loves to hear himself talk,
And now I fear that fatal prophecy
the pestilence; to sigh, like a school-boy that had
Of things to come at large. It is supposed
While I shall have my life. Come, reverend fathers,
For some must watch, while some must sleep:
Thames? Well, if I be served such another trick,
LEONATUS.'
That such an army could be drawn in France,
What I can help thee to thou shalt not miss.
Armado is a most illustrious wight,
He hath, my lord; but be you well assured,
that may turn back to my advancement? I will bring
Exit BELARIUS
Or else refusing me, to wed this shepherd:
For his right noble mind, illustrious virtue
When I shall see this gentleman, thy speeches
My lord?
In thy foul throat thou liest: Queen Margaret saw
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
The thief doth fear each bush an officer.
You must think, if we give you any thing, we hope to
'Tis the more honour, because more dangerous.
That Talbot is but shadow of himself?
And punish them to your height of pleasure.
A pick-axe, and a spade, a spade,
Enter WARWICK and GLOUCESTER
To show us so much gentry and good will
Being all to dolours turn'd?
What page's suit she hath in readiness.
O woe! O woful, woful, woful day!
Exit Servingman
bawdy-houses, and one poor penny-worth of
This is strange.
in the heart of the world, and especially of my own
And shrive you of a thousand idle pranks.
That sits above,
Our will became the servant to defect;
That while Verona by that name is known,
That the Pannonians and Dalmatians for
Love, love, nothing but love, still more!
And would conceive for what I gave the ring
They are all perceived without ye.
What, my lord?
Paulina! She had one eye declined for the loss of
Imagine I have said farewell already.
Come hither, sirrah, I must examine thee: what is thy name?
I see a voice: now will I to the chink,
I charge thee, be not thou more grieved than I am.
The clogging burthen of a guilty soul.
With more than common thanks I will receive it.
Farewell, sweet queen.
I nill relate, action may
I love not to see wretchedness o'er charged
Who ever would have thought it? Romeo!
Did he break out into tears?
Statist though I am none, nor like to be,
And say you do't by our permission;
For blessed are the peacemakers on earth.
I know not where he lodges, and for me to devise a
Love got so sweet as when desire did sue.
A noble boy! Who would not do thee right?
Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears;
No great offence belongs to't, give your friend
While I was there.
Hautboys and torches. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM,  DONALBAIN, BANQUO, LENNOX, MACDUFF, ROSS, ANGUS, and Attendants
In such a rein, in full as proud a place
And hold fair friendship with his majesty.
most dreadful thing; for there is not a more fearful
Thou dost affect my manners, and dost use them.
may call beasts.
Peace, good pint-pot; peace, good tickle-brain.
What should the people do with these bald tribunes?
And lean-look'd prophets whisper fearful change;
O hell! what have we here?
The nobleman would have dealt with her like a
And this fair gentlewoman, her sister here,
His foot Mercurial; his Martial thigh;
To make thee full of growing. Noble Banquo,
Ah, Warwick, Warwick! wert thou as we are.
Go after him; for he perhaps shall need
Enter the Thieves again
Your fresh-fair virgins and your flowering infants.
Now, at the latest minute of the hour,
Or ill-beseeming beast in seeming both!
And care not who they sting in his revenge.
Not so hot, good sir:
Marcus, we will.
About it; for it stands me much upon,
Art turn'd the greatest liar.
To meet the least occasion that may give me
As well as speak--it tauntingly replied
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
That so sweetly were forsworn;
Sweet hearts, we shall be rich ere we depart,
And kneel, sweet boy, the Roman Hector's hope;
Yea, my lord. How brooks your grace the air,
Here comes his body, mourned by Mark Antony: who,
nothing but the reward of a villain.
And with this healthful hand, whose banish'd sense
That every eye which in this forest looks
Some squeaking Cleopatra boy my greatness
High'st queen of state,
Though this island seem to be desert,--
Masterly done:
Within this half hour will he be asleep:
Stand from the hearse, stand from the body.
That fret the clouds are messengers of day.
That am a poor and humble subject to you?
And so am I, being else by faith enforced
Bold in the quarrel's right, roused to the encounter,
Why, 'tis a gull, a fool, a rogue, that now and then
Exit LUCIUS
directly in love with him.
As knots, by the conflux of meeting sap,
Approaching the bower
If they shall fail, I, with mine enemies,
Whose minister you are, whiles here he lived
Whose age has charms in it, whose title more,
Allayments to their act, and by them gather
belongs to reason; and canst use the time well, if
Where is this fellow?
That blood should sprinkle me to make me grow:
not have come.
Hear me, good brother.
Fair princess, welcome to the court of Navarre.
Would none but I might venge my cousin's death!
Edward, my lord, your son, our king, is dead.
No more, but e'en a woman, and commanded
My master, Sir John, is come in at your back-door,
the more wrong,' quoth I; ''twas I did the thing you
Than Cambridge is, hath likewise sworn. But, O,
her fool, but her corrupter of words.
She is not fourteen. How long is it now
Most throughly to be winnow'd, where my chaff
So, at his sight, away his fellows fly;
To be adjudged some direful slaughtering death,
To pay the saddler for my mistress' crupper?
indeed! I ne'er made my will yet, I thank heaven; I
This act so evilly born shall cool the hearts
Induce you to the question on't? or ever
or purblind Argus, all eyes and no sight.
Kissing her
Nay, but my letters, by this means being there
And so, his knell is knoll'd.
And yet I would it were to give again.
To the boy Caesar send this grizzled head,
Whereof the root was fix'd in virtue's ground,
Wasted our country, slain our citizens
Of these fair edifices 'fore my wars
Or hath mine uncle Beaufort and myself,
To have her honour true than your suspicion,
and the stony-hearted villains know it well enough:
Alas, the storm is come again! my best way is to
Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.
Come, what talk you
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge,
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
finder of madmen. But see, but see.
Touching our person seek we no revenge;
Will you be ruled by me?
Where's Poins, Hal?
He should receive his punishment in thanks:
'Twill out, 'twill out: I peace!
Should run thy head from thy unreverent shoulders.
Points to WILLIAMS. Exeunt Heralds with Montjoy
My lady's a Cataian, we are politicians, Malvolio's
What's done i' the Capitol; who's like to rise,
My good lord archbishop, I'm very sorry
An honour in him which buys out his fault--
To tell thee that this day is ominous:
more comfortable sort: if my son were my husband, I
[Aside]  I am almost afraid to stand alone
Tut, man, one fire burns out another's burning,
Go thou with her to the west end of the wood;
Adieu, brave Moor, use Desdemona well.
You must prepare to fight without Achilles.
the poor third is up, till death enlarge his confine.
Wast not the way?
that, when gentlemen are tired, gives them a sob
Or being, concern you not.
Now blessed be the great Apollo!
Bless you, fair shrew.
Hark, Ventidius.
Alarums, excursions, retreat. Enter KING JOHN,  QUEEN ELINOR, ARTHUR, the BASTARD, HUBERT, and Lords
Prithee be cheerful: know'st thou not, the duke
This tablet lay upon his breast, wherein
Grumio, my horse.
Exit Regan, led
Would the nobility lay aside their ruth,
That could be found.
Your hearts I'll stamp out with my horse's heels,
Which in their summer beauty kiss'd each other.
morning you could not see to wipe my shoes.
Why speaks my father so ungently? This
Esteem him as a lamb, being compared
Here's a villain!
By the eighth hour: is that the uttermost?
That died some twelvemonth since, then leaving her
SCENE III. The same. A street.
Exeunt
SCENE III. Wales: a mountainous country with a cave.
Refuse it not; it hath no tongue to vex you;
And that's a feeling disputation:
Ay, that I will; and I'll be wise hereafter
Against the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray?
Hark what thou else shalt do me.
if I have horns to make one mad, let the proverb go
Attend us through the city.
Pardon is all the suit I have in hand.
Ay, he: he offered to cut a caper at the
That like nor peace nor war? the one affrights you,
He bids you name your griefs; and with all speed
And from this swarm of fair advantages
They hither march amain, under conduct
And many unfrequented plots there are
'Twill make them cool in zeal unto your grace.
She hath not yet forgot him: some more time
comfort of your young prince Mamillius: it is a
Therefore I'll darkly end the argument.
stare him out of his wits; I will awe him with my
ACT V
Our ranks are broke, and ruin follows us:
The complot of this timeless tragedy;
I am either maid, or else this old man's wife.
The great contention of the sea and skies
we jest now, think you?
So the were bleeding-new, my lord, there's no meat
No noble rite nor formal ostentation--
A se'nnight's speed. Great Jove, Othello guard,
To part the queen's proud kindred from the king.
To wall thee from the liberty of flight;
I be misconstrued in the place I go to,
To sue to live, I find I seek to die;
If thou remember'st aught ere thou camest here,
Than your particular demands will touch it:
Use me but as your spaniel, spurn me, strike me,
Second Serving-man	Do what ye dare, we are as resolute.
ay?
The head of Cade! Great God, how just art Thou!
And great affections wrestling in thy bosom
known by the fruit, as the fruit by the tree, then,
Give me some breath, some little pause, my lord
Crack my clear voice with sobs and break my heart
Worse than a promise-breaker.
Where they shall rest for ever. Trumpets, speak!
GUILDENSTERN:
What, a hodge-pudding? a bag of flax?
I'll talk a word with this same learned Theban.
To make this shameless callet know herself.
Cleomenes and Dion, whom you know
Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
Than we to stretch it out.
And, to be short, what not, that's sweet and happy?
With no less presence, but with much more love,
One ever near thee: call for Enobarbus,
Exeunt
Wink each at other; hold the sweet jest up:
Drown'd! O, where?
Judge when you hear. But, soft! what nymphs are these?
And he that breaks them in the least degree
And heir apparent to the English crown:
May it please you noble madam, to withdraw
Sticking together in calamity.
A most virtuous princess.
in him, that with the mischief of your person it
Thou canst compel no more than she entreat:
To make against your highness' claim to France
But, as it were, in sort or limitation,
I am sure you know him well enough.
Did you ever hear the like?
Like stinging bees in hottest summer's day
Now you are heir, therefore enjoy it now:
Who comes with her?
My gracious sovereign, as I rode from Calais,
This ancient ruffian, sir, whose life I have spared
Where? when? what vizard? why demand you this?
ACT III
My sweet ounce of man's flesh! my incony Jew!
That very hour, and in the self-same inn,
With this unprofitable woe!
I'll after him, and see the event of this.
At whose expense 'tis done.
What present hast thou there?
As amply and unnecessarily
For still 'tis beating in my mind, your reason
Sound drums and trumpets, and to London all:
That I might love thee something.
The happy tidings of his good escape.
solemn talk.
And, at our stamp, here o'er and o'er one falls;
Of sprites and goblins.
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and MENENIUS
'Lord' quoth he! That a monster should be such a natural!
Hark you, he swears; by Jupiter he swears.
That carries anger as the flint bears fire;
For, were there hope to conquer them again,
Be yet my nephew: my brother hath a daughter,
Prithee, fair youth,
How many make the hour full complete;
Is too much for a score,
It may be, these apparent prodigies,
Enter BAPTISTA, VINCENTIO, GREMIO, the Pedant,  LUCENTIO, BIANCA, PETRUCHIO, KATHARINA, HORTENSIO,  and Widow, TRANIO, BIONDELLO, and GRUMIO the Serving-men with Tranio bringing in a banquet
Exit
So, sir.
For in my way it lies. Stars, hide your fires;
I'll to the wars, she to her single sorrow.
And here we wander in illusions:
Why should she live, to fill the world with words?
Constantinople and take the Turk by the beard?
It stains the glory in that happy verse
Marry, that he had received a thousand ducats of
And their executors, the knavish crows,
But no trace of him.
Enter LUCIUS, a Captain and other Officers, and a Soothsayer
I pray now, keep below.
Do thou entreat her show a woman pity.
Were it to call King Edward's widow sister,
is mad, and sent into England.
And when the mind is quicken'd, out of doubt,
That quench the fire of your pernicious rage
The flesh?
Your part in her you could not keep from death,
Which in his greatest need will shrink from him.
You are, you are--O royal Pericles!
Revolving this will teach thee how to curse.
Ride more than thou goest,
I come to know your pleasure.
I spy a black, suspicious, threatening cloud,
Brandish'd by man that's of a woman born.
It shall be moon, or star, or what I list,
DON
Bosko chimurcho.
'Farewell, dear heart, since I must needs be gone.'
The Alps doth spit and void his rheum upon:
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
Upon the hills adjoining to the city
Being wronged as we are by this peevish town,
believe,' said she, 'for he swore a thing to me on
She's tickled now; her fume needs no spurs,
Since his exile she hath despised me most,
Quoth she, 'Here's but two and fifty hairs on your
ceremonious affection as you were wont; there's a
Now all the blessings
York doth present himself unto your highness.
Exeunt Gaolers, bearing out the body of MORTIMER
She, I'll swear, hath corns; am I come near ye now?
Farewell, farewell.
By any understanding pate but thine?
True, they are so:
Was Duke of Milan; and thou his only heir
My lord protector will, I doubt it not,
Of Naples and of Milan, what strange fish
Let's shut our gates and sleep: manhood and honour
to-morrow. 'Sblood,'twas time to counterfeit, or
And now baits me! This brat is none of mine;
We bodged again; as I have seen a swan
Forerunning more requital.
Exit, bearing off his father
Well, let us to the king: there is that in this
A bawd, a bawd, a bawd! so ho!
Hath Cassius lived
My father had a daughter loved a man,
Unhappy Claudio! wretched Isabel!
Hark, countrymen! either renew the fight,
Put armour on thine ears and on thine eyes;
A man, young lady! lady, such a man
[Beneath]  Swear.
I have done. Come, you promised me a tawdry-lace
Exit Gratiano
What craker is this same that deafs our ears
A woman of less place might ask by law:
Happily he's the second time come to them; for they
Exit
Would I might
Come, come to me,
A bridegroom in my death, and run into't
I did not bid you mar it to the time.
I have by hard adventure found mine own.
Must I observe you? must I stand and crouch
Will lug your priests and servants from your sides,
Such a nature,
not my lord protector.
Must I give way and room to your rash choler?
And there assume some other horrible form,
Kneels
Behold, as may unworthiness define,
Therefore to's seemeth it a needful course,
Cousin, there's fall'n between him and my lord
Good morrow, Hubert.
That Talbot's name might be in thee revived
These herblets shall, which we upon you strew.
I' faith, lady, I think your blazon to be true;
When I have heard your king's desert recounted,
Should go so general current through the world.
as the pomewater, who now hangeth like a jewel in
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
The precious note of it with a base slave.
You holy clergymen, is there no plot
When they shall hear how we have play'd the men.
Here, my good lord.
His arms are only to remove from thee
honour? a word. What is in that word honour? what
I will not trust you, sir.
Hoist with his own petard: and 't shall go hard
Thrust Talbot with a spear into the back,
At your kind'st leisure.
The kindred of him hath been flesh'd upon us;
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill:
they did last time.
Dear life redeems you. You perceive she stirs:
To the next abstinence: the next more easy;
When grief hath mates, and bearing fellowship.
They have e'en put my breath from me, the slaves.
Money is a good soldier, sir, and will on.
Let me have audience; I am sent to speak:
but they think we are too dear: the leanness that
Farewell till then: I will go lose myself
As, if it can, I will presume in you--
Tell me, thou fellow, is not France forsworn?
By prosperous voyages I often made
Give me my principal, and let me go.
Shall Rome stand under one man's awe? What, Rome?
Is she the goddess that hath sever'd us,
By my sword, Beatrice, thou lovest me.
borrowed a box of the ear of the Englishman and
Would the two princes lie, and Claudio lie,
That no man enter till my tale be done.
The conquerors can but make a fire of him;
mortality, and desperately mortal.
Look, whether he have not crown'd dead Cassius!
The singing masons building roofs of gold,
ACT I
It was a gentle business, and becoming
Exit SIR HUGH EVANS
Let me ask my sister pardon. I am so out of love
Music
To be commanded.
Enter QUEEN MARGARET, behind
A royal battle might be won and lost
I'll heat his blood with Greekish wine to-night,
I wasted time, and now doth time waste me;
observed: and we are strong in custom. Therefore
Exeunt
Mark me now; now will I raise the waters. Talk you
And with the deepest malice of the war
Which in the time of Henry named the Fifth
In whose comparison all whites are ink,
To seem to die ere sick: so please you, leave me;
That is, to be the champion of our church!
So much, dear liege, I have already sworn,
And an eternal curse fall on you! Let me know.
Though they are made and moulded of things past,
Are near to Warwick by blood and by alliance:
Exit
As done: perseverance, dear my lord,
The violence of either grief or joy
one, I hope I shall not be flayed out of it.
the Florentine?
To what is count's man: count's master is of
Poor shadows of Elysium, hence, and rest
An appetite that I am sick withal,
burthens of dildos and fadings, 'jump her and thump
This praise doth nourish agues. Let them come:
Know ye Don Antonio, your countryman?
I seek to heal it only by his wealth:
These words hereafter thy tormentors be!
Villain, forbear.
hast the harvest out of thine own report.
But since that thou canst talk of love so well,
Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of Wincot, if
So do I ever:
That set thee on to this desert, am bound
Either to be restored to my blood,
Even now, sir; on a moderate pace I have since
oath before this honourable assembly, she kicked the
Which dances with your daughter?
The sooner, sweet, for you.
see, it is already in snuff.
Forgive him, Angelo, that brought you home
please you, Sir Nathaniel?
And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
Offended us you have not, but the king.
Now stops thy spring; my sea sha$l suck them dry,
Would choose him pope, and carry him to Rome,
Before thy coming Lewis was Henry's friend.
You'll go with us?
Therefore present to her--as sometime Margaret
the bark of a tree with mine own hands since I was
Antonio and old Shylock, both stand forth.
other: and she bade me tell your worship that her
Of your entire affection to Bianca;
Here in Vienna, sir.
If I would broach the vessels of my love,
When simpleness and duty tender it.
In that you brook it in, it makes him worse:
serves a bad woman; whose house, sir, was, as they
And but the backs of Britons seen, all flying
'Tis known to you he is mine enemy,
Sound, trumpets, alarum to the combatants!
Schoolmasters will I keep within my house,
abate her nothing, though I profess myself her
The Count Rousillon cannot be my brother:
To you I give myself, for I am yours.
To have her gentleman abused, assaulted,
Pulling out a paper
kills a sparrow flying.
Re-enter ARIEL, with the Master and Boatswain amazedly following
Doth make the fault the worse by the excuse,
Wilt break my heart?
I shall sooner rail thee into wit and holiness: but,
Young man, have you challenged Charles the wrestler?
Why follow'd not, when she said 'Tybalt's dead,'
Exeunt
I'll show thee a precedent.
Now, go thy ways; thou hast tamed a curst shrew.
To gild refined gold, to paint the lily,
So strive upon your pulse. What, pale again?
Didst thou not hear me swear I would not do it?
Break, heart; I prithee, break!
And the king's rouse the heavens all bruit again,
lieutenant tonight watches on the court of
I'll fetch my sister, to get her good will.
Alack, poor soul! thou hast need of more rags to lay
I thank thee for myself.
Mistress Page is come with me, sweetheart.
I'ld drive ye cackling home to Camelot.
Of all his people and freeze up their zeal,
cannot enjoy her.
'Tis hoped his sickness is discharged.
Trumpets sound within
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
For every inch of woman in the world,
Who, in your thoughts, merits fair Helen best,
Nay, be not angry, sir.
See where she comes from shrift with merry look.
Nay, mock not, mock not. The body of your
swallowed one another: I would laugh at that
Then here is a supplication for you. And when you
We have always truly served you, and beseech you
And when goes hence?
To this same blessed Milford: and by the way
Pluck stout men's pillows from below their heads:
She is corrupted, changed and won from thee;
Thou naughty varlet!
All her perfections challenge sovereignty:
thou hast blushed extempore. Thou hadst fire and
And all wide-stretched honours that pertain
Of holy reverence; who, I cannot learn.
Though my revenges were high bent upon him,
Ay, let the county take you in your bed;
the earth?
Disclaiming here the kindred of the king,
I know it by their pale and deadly looks:
Re-enter MOTH with COSTARD
an egg for quarrelling: thou hast quarrelled with a
Heavens bless my lord from fell Aufidius!
Whose womb unmeasurable, and infinite breast,
By'r lady, I think it be so.
Therefore change favours; and, when they repair,
either get her ravished, or be rid of her. When she
To the ambassadors of England gives
The mortal gate of the city, which he painted
morris-pike.
What two crowns shall they be?
And on this couple drop a blessed crown!
Where I have lived at honest freedom, paid
SCENE I. Bristol. Before the castle.
To reconcile you all unto the king.
He is wise;
[Within]  Madam!
Come hither, man. I see that thou art poor:
Exit
Yet here they shall not lie, for catching cold.
Of many worthy fellows that were out;
So likely an ambassador of love:
many books together: he is furnished with my
name? why dost thou not speak, Elbow?
As well wherein 'tis precious of itself
O grim-look'd night! O night with hue so black!
Present mirth hath present laughter;
To change a master. O, my fortunes have
If I thrive well, I'll visit thee again.
DON
He only, in a general honest thought
Be hung with Caesar's trophies. I'll about,
So cowards fight when they can fly no further;
[Aside]  Ay, but, I fear me, with a hollow heart.--
Methought he bore him in the thickest troop
Exeunt
Most worthy madam,
Spit in the hole, man, and tune again.
Let me redeem my brothers both from death.
Something's afore't. Soft, soft! we'll no defence;
What mean these fellows? Know they not Achilles?
Ride thou unto the horsemen on yon hill:
No, foolish tribune, no; no son of mine,
Stanley did dream the boar did raze his helm;
SCENE III. The same. A public place.
And, to cut off all strife, here sit we down:
Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash
For this affliction has a taste as sweet
So wither'd and so wild in their attire,
I am to get a man,--whate'er he be,
For visiting your highness: my best train
But who is man that is not angry?
A doctrine of obedience; and would gladly
And, sure, he is an honourable man.
Enter PERICLES with Attendants
I would not--though 'tis my familiar sin
Drum. Enter BRUTUS, LUCILIUS, LUCIUS, and Soldiers; TITINIUS and PINDARUS meeting them
The moon was a month old when Adam was no more,
We wait upon your grace.
wits and bearing too? A pox o' your bottle!
I have seduced a headstrong Kentishman,
Could you not have told him
Stays but the summons of the appellant's trumpet.
Overdone's own house, for here be many of her old
And quench his fiery indignation
Stay:
But, with the motion of all elements,
But, for those earthly faults, I quit them all;
As we have, such. This gallant which thou seest
One of our order, to associate me,
Exit
But say, again; how many saw the child?
Inferreth arguments of mighty strength,
Master young man, you, I pray you, which is the way
from his book, and it is wonderful.
If thou vouchsafe them. But if not, then know
By flight I'll shun the danger which I fear.
your blows.
speak no more. Away with those giglots too, and
O fairest beauty, do not fear nor fly!
Directive by the limbs.
honest: now, if thou wert a poet, I might have some
Of what degree soever, with his brother.
Sir, I will eat no meat, I'll not drink, sir;
Look how thy servants do attend on thee,
Upon your oath of service to the pope,
bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
To come thus was I not constrain'd, but did
reputation, who is thus like to be cozened with the
And live the purer with the other half.
Assays to lead the way: if I once stir,
And crown you king of this day's happiness.
Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized;
And then you fled into this abbey here,
never tire.
What have we here?
With wax I brought away, whose soft impression
No, it is struck.
If this be he you oft have wish'd to hear from.
And grieve his spirit that dares not challenge it.
Farewell, kind Charmian; Iras, long farewell.
Your brother--no, no brother; yet the son--
Bad is the trade that must play fool to sorrow,
[Aside to CLARENCE]  Ay, good leave have you; for
A most unhappy one: I would do much
Exit GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM following
Our revels now are ended. These our actors,
for; we shall be flouting; we cannot hold.
I am hitherto your daughter: but here's my husband,
Than by the tiger; but when the splitting wind
Where my stomach finds meat; or, rather, where I eat
And I believe, it is a fetch of wit:
Is't a verdict?
With aptness of the season; make denials
God comfort thee! Why dost thou smile so and kiss
My heart as great, my reason haply more,
Sirrah Grumio, go to your mistress;
Therefore no more of it: hear other things.
That I, being govern'd by the watery moon,
priests in the old church-window, sometime like the
Let's follow the old earl, and get the Bedlam
To Stanley's regiment; bid him bring his power
She praised his complexion above Paris.
O, he is even in my mistress' case,
As far as land will let me, by your side.
how it takes up the shore! but that's not the
Shame serves thy life and doth thy death attend.
What say you, Scarlet and John?
narrow for your mind.
And when you find him evenly derived
Why should I write this down, that's riveted,
It looks a little paler: 'tis a day,
price of hogs: if we grow all to be pork-eaters, we
My lord, I'll tell my lady you will come.
SCENE I. Without the Florentine camp.
Meet on the market-place. We'll attend you there:
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb:
Good friend, I prithee, take him in thy arms;
Exit
'Tis not for you to hear what I can speak:
As thou report'st thyself, wast then her servant;
With her I lived in joy; our wealth increased
never a worthier man.
See for the news.
Is this Ascension-day? Did not the prophet
To make the even truth in pleasure flow.
Master, shall I fetch your stuff from shipboard?
Feast with the best, and welcome to my house:
Alarums: excursions. Enter QUEEN MARGARET, PRINCE EDWARD, and EXETER
More than was ever man's, I would not prize them
First, make yourself but like one.
For what reason?
A great sign, sir, that he will look sad.
well, they imitated humanity so abominably.
I'll beat thee, but I should infect my hands.
DON
Quoniam he seemeth in minority,
and make him my waiting-gentlewoman? He that hath a
Far more, far more to you do I decline.
Antony,
Thou pretty, because little.
Indeed your drums, being beaten, will cry out;
Villain, thou didst deny the gold's receipt,
In our remove be thou at full ourself;
I saw upon her finger.
Come on then, and remove him.
This night forestall him of the coming day!
Wast you he rescued?
does stand,
Than vainly longing. What we oft do best,
Holding due course to Harfleur. Follow, follow:
This, this: no more, you gods! your present kindness
A good l'envoy, ending in the goose: would you
Farewell, farewell! one kiss, and I'll descend.
I'll warrant you,
Sleeps in Elysium; next day after dawn,
Seized on the realm, deposed the rightful king,
O, relation
Have I been ever free, and must my house
And he shall signify from time to time
I partly know the man: go, call him hither.
Where, my lord?
But your legs should do it.
Or a half-moon made with a pen.
grief; in fine, made a groan of her last breath, and
as partly touching or concerning the disciplines of
Then the boy's fat l'envoy, the goose that you bought;
That is her ransom; I deliver her;
Where, good Mistress Mary?
Or we poor ghosts will cry
But sea-room, an the brine and cloudy billow kiss
He needs must see himself.
Tell me some reason why the Lady Grey
Exit PHILOSTRATE
Those wicked creatures yet do look well-favour'd,
copulatives, to swear and to forswear: according as
If they not thought the profits of my death
Then he disdains to shine; for by the book
grandmother: this proves that thou canst not read.
Whereof ungrateful man, with liquorish draughts
Wash your hands, put on your nightgown; look not so
Let my presumption not provoke thy wrath;
I kiss these fingers for eternal peace,
Cousin, cousin, how have you come so early by this lethargy?
To tread a measure with you on this grass.
Not that Adam that kept the Paradise but that Adam
the peace, if I see a sword out, my finger itches to
My Lord Aumerle, I know your daring tongue
They should find easy penance.
So to him we leave it.
They are worn, lord consul, so,
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
This priest has no pride in him?
But if thou, jealous, dost return to pry
And to that end we wish'd your lord-ship here,
My best-esteem'd acquaintance: hie thee, go.
Express'd in the condition, let the forfeit
Farewell the tranquil mind! farewell content!
Still serve him with my life. My dearest master!
Do something mingle with our younger brown, yet ha' we
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
And therefore know how far I may be pitied.
But neither my good word nor princely favour:
service: it was a disaster of war that Caesar
world's end? I will go on the slightest errand now
Five shillings to one on't, with any man that knows
Faith, sir, you need not fear. When we were boys,
warlike resistance.
I shall be, if I claim by open war.
Demetrius and Egeus, go along:
You speak your fair pleasure, sweet queen. Fair
Hortensio, have you told him all her faults?
Unclasp'd my practise, quit his fortunes here,
Let the supposed fairies pinch him sound
And set them on Lud's-town.
And when was he wont to wash his face?
An I might live to see thee married once,
Unto our brother France, and to our sister,
I do not like these several councils, I.
He that has the two fair daughters: is't he you mean?
Who laid him down and bask'd him in the sun,
Brother of Gloucester, at Saint Alban's field
Silver'd o'er; and so was this.
Leaving their earthly parts to choke your clime,
O, no; wherein Lord Talbot was o'erthrown:
That will not hold the handling: or say to them,
That thus without advice begin to love her!
And very rich: but thou'rt too much my friend,
In private brabble did we apprehend him.
Fell from their boughs and left me open, bare
Hearing that you prepared for war, acquainted
The mind of Talbot, as you did mistake
And may, for aught thou know'st, affected be.
Favours that keep within. Come, Escalus,
Nay, it perchance will sparkle in your eyes;
And then depart to Paris to the king,
By such poor passion as the maid that milks
If Caesar carelessly but nod on him.
The duke must grant me that: besides, his picture
Brother, good night: to-morrow is the day.
master's whistle. Blow, till thou burst thy wind,
These, as I learn, and such like toys as these
If not, 'tis true this parting was well made.
O, this is it that makes your servants droop!
more of thy old body than I have done. Will they
Give me leave. Here lies the water; good: here
Will o'er some high-viced city hang his poison
Which I will win from France, or else be slain,
My lady goes to kill horns; but, if thou marry,
Will, hand in hand, all headlong cast us down.
And I for my escape have put on his;
peradventure prings goot discretions with it: there
Sir, this should be answer'd.
With the attainder of his slanderous lips.
Had not been broken, nor my brother slain:
Strikes him
No; I rather added
In recompense whereof he hath married her.
you and dote upon the exchange.
O, reason not the need: our basest beggars
Seeking for Richmond in the throat of death.
That I should be attach'd in Ephesus,
Never to taste the pleasures of the world,
Besides, he says there are two councils held;
He'll make his cap co-equal with the crown.'
Saddle my horse.
I am nothing: or if not,
With duty and desire we follow you.
for in converting Jews to Christians, you raise the
all foul ways! Was ever man so beaten? was ever
You know the character to be your brother's?
And, for I know thou'rt full of love and honesty,
Portia, adieu. I have too grieved a heart
We should infringe the holy privilege
If thou do pardon, whosoever pray,
CLARENCE sleeps
Nothing becomes him ill that he would well.
Come, Margaret; God, our hope, will succor us.
prince. Instinct is a great matter; I was now a
que je suis le bon ecolier; j'ai gagne deux mots
Are you agreed?
Enter CURTIS
Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight
Go, bear Patroclus' body to Achilles;
that he shall go.
Enough; hold or cut bow-strings.
Known and allied to yours.
One of the greatest in the Christian world
Or should, or should not, bar us in our claim:
For virtue's office never breaks men's troth.
The heavy gait of night. Sweet friends, to bed.
I did obey, and sent my peasant home
Sir, your glove.
That violates the smallest branch herein:
Which gave advantage to an ancient soldier,
Cannot induce you to attend my words,
[Reads]  Item, A capon,. . 2s. 2d.
Take you some company, and away to horse:
Which, I presume, he'll take in gentle part.
What is thy soul of adoration?
Once more, what news?
Didst perceive it?
My loving lord, Dumain is mortified:
Up, and away!
For present parting; only he desires
While one would wink; denied me mine own purse,
And from the organ-pipe of frailty sings
O god of love! I know he doth deserve
Sir, they are spoken, and these things are true.
so often blushed to acknowledge him, that now I am
A nd we were better parch in Afric sun
With juice of balm and every precious flower:
my daughter.
torment the poor lady worse.
Give me thy glove, soldier: look, here is the
Make haste; the hour of death is expiate.
forsooth, to search his house for his wife's love.
Upon my life, then, you took the wrong.
Romeo, there dead, was husband to that Juliet;
Hath crawl'd into the favour of the king,
Good morrow, Alexander. How do you, cousin? When
rascal hath removed my horse, and tied him I know
For shame! leave Henry, and call Edward king.
SCENE II. Hall in Capulet's house.
O my good lord, that comfort comes too late;
bring forth this counterfeit module, he has deceived
He shall be whipped through the army with this rhyme
I would not wish them to a fairer death:
Stand ranks of people, and they cry 'A sail!'
On me, my bargains and my well-won thrift,
Who brought that letter from the cardinal?
What dost thou then in prison?
I thank your grace,
If you misdoubt me that I am not she,
RICHARD
My voice is now the king's, my looks mine own.
Grasps in the comer: welcome ever smiles,
Charles and the rest will take thee in their arms.
I learn'd of thee. How! not dead? not dead?
A pond as deep as hell.
Or those eyes shut, that make thee answer 'I.'
soldiers and my young lady!
Dido and her AEneas shall want troops,
An odd man, lady! every man is odd.
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
Ha! what has he sent? I am so much endeared to
If there be faith in men, meant for his trial,
I sent your message; who return'd her thanks
O Cromwell,
To catch the nearest way: thou wouldst be great;
What from your grace I shall deliver to him.
all conveniency than suppliest me with the least
Have here deliver'd me to my sour cross,
Most fruitfully: I am there before my legs.
If Saturnine advance the Queen of Goths,
And come yourselves, and bring Messala with you
Though I lost twenty lives.--Help! help, ho! help!
You have here, lady,
And prey on garbage.
This louring tempest of your home-bred hate;
And ask of thee forgiveness: so we'll live,
Yourself into a power tyrannical;
Such temperate order in so fierce a cause,
you, hostess: he is very sick, and would to bed.
Let die the spotted.
Than that which is to approach.
To cheque time broke in a disorder'd string;
'Thus must thou speak,' and 'thus thy body bear:'
And when I lived, I was your other wife:
I will subscribe--gentle adieus and greetings;
Enter BUCKINGHAM from his arraignment; tip-staves  before him; the axe with the edge towards him;  halberds on each side: accompanied with LOVELL, VAUX, SANDS, and common people
withdrawn her father to break with him about it.
Good friar, I know you do, and have found it.
Serve you, sir.
In her imagined person.
Worthy Montano, you were wont be civil;
She twits me with my falsehood to my friend;
Which he will put on us, as pigeons feed their young.
With all religious strength of sacred vows;
Would seem in me to affect speech and discourse;
Out, ye rogue! Play out the play: I have much to
SCENE VI. Rome. A public place.
I am too sore enpierced with his shaft
One word in private with you, ere I die.
deserving: you have lost no reputation at all,
What! loss of some pitch'd battle against Warwick?
[Aside to ARIEL]  Bravely, my diligence. Thou shalt be free.
To hear him so inclined.
One that attends your ladyship's command.
The stony entrance of this sepulchre?
This moral ties me over to time and a hot summer;
The fourth son; York claims it from the third.
The gods defend me!
How much the quantity, the weight as much,
I will be patient.
More than their own! What then? how then?
A ministering angel shall my sister be,
Why, true; he means to make a puppet of thee.
And be not fix'd in doom perpetual,
Which you knew great, and to the hazard
home! it rejoiceth my intellect: true wit!
Re-enter Servant
That you run mad, seeing that she is well:
Do! why: what else?
Troth, sir, I can yield you none without words; and
Would you, the supervisor, grossly gape on--
pridge: I can tell your majesty, the duke is a
Nor do I now make moan to be abridged
Like to the Egyptian thief at point of death,
Or thou shouldst find thou hast dishonour'd me.
Why, whither, Adam, wouldst thou have me go?
Mark Antony!
I got this ring: 'twas Leonatus' jewel;
And that which should accompany old age,
Anjou and Maine! myself did win them both;
exploit: yet slight ones will not carry it; they
Observe how Antony becomes his flaw,
Than doth a rich embroider'd canopy
Now it's twenty-seven: every gash was an enemy's grave.
Offered by a child to an old man; which is wit-old.
Exeunt some Servants
Bid the music leave,
Pause awhile,
It hath no end.
If not to answer, you might haply think
Pray you, let's hear.
have the letters I have sent; and repair thou to me
What pain it cost, what danger. God's!
Since, Jupiter, our son is good,
And Rosaline they call her: ask for her;
By Dromio?
For know, my lords, the states of Christendom,
Come on, sir; here's the place: stand still. How fearful
Show boldness and aspiring confidence.
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK ANTONY, LEPIDUS, and OCTAVIA
That shakes the rotten carcass of old Death
For ever should they be expulsed from France
The best way is to venge my Gloucester's death.
Why, Via! to London will we march amain,
This is the letter to your ladyship.
That noises it against us.
find in the regiment of the Spinii one Captain
Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
That which in mean men we intitle patience
Let it alone. Come, I'll go in with you.
Old fashions please me best; I am not so nice,
To tell, he longs to see his son, were strong:
'One fair daughter and no more,
Forget not, in your speed, Antonius,
And he repents not that he pays your debt;
be your tutor: suit the action to the word, the
And ere a man hath power to say 'Behold!'
Then, farewell, heat, and welcome, frost!
Give me now leave to leave thee.
Here is my hand for my true constancy;
With accusations, as I hear, more strong
Our queen and all our elves come here anon.
Come, sir.
God help the wicked! if to be old and merry be a
Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral.
stealing, fighting--Hark you now! Would any but
To second ills with ills, each elder worse,
We must be neat; not neat, but cleanly, captain:
Enter ACHILLES and PATROCLUS
Can lift your blood up with persuasion.
Are not you moved, when all the sway of earth
Exit
He is prepared, and reason too he should:
Where is the beauteous majesty of Denmark?
Into the law of children. Be not fond,
That are within the note of expectation
This island's mine, by Sycorax my mother,
Sirrah, where have you been?
Enter FALSTAFF
charity, whom the foul fiend vexes: there could I
in the chine; troubled with the lampass, infected
Exeunt
upon Saint Tavy's day.
Look you, sir, here is the hand and seal of the
With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,
And send him many years of sunshine days!
Prescribe not us our duties.
all the care I had, I saw well chosen, ridden, and
By thy revolt, O husband, shall be thought
Proclaimed a strumpet: with immodest hatred
Perhaps I shall be rescued by the French;
ACT II
Will be my knell. Go, play, boy, play.
And all things change them to the contrary.
and honourable personages than the commission of your
And would have reft the fishers of their prey,
Lo, lo, again! bite him to death, I prithee.
Why, Buckingham, I say, I would be king,
Their armours, that march'd hence so silver-bright,
Peace, peace! forbear:
My faction if thou strengthen with thy friends,
Where we shall find him most conveniently.
'Twere good he were school'd.
Nothing. What news?
[Aside]  Heaven give thee moving graces!
As gardeners do with ordure hide those roots
We'll hold a feast in great solemnity.
Enter BASSIANUS and LAVINIA
Let us, like merchants, show our foulest wares,
In wrongful quarrel you have slain your son.
And if thy sons were ever dear to thee,
If, or for nothing or a little, I
Then none have I offended. I have done no more to
Farewell till soon.
for she hath privately twice or thrice a day, ever
Without the which a soldier, and his sword,
And egally indeed to all estates,--
Soft! who comes here?
And there is such confusion in my powers,
The shrinking slaves of winter.
Antony, thou wouldst say,--
encounter such ridiculous subjects as you are. When
And this for me, struck home to show my strength.
Where is my other life? mine own is gone;
To be regarded in her sun-bright eye.
Give renew'd fire to our extincted spirits
no wit, manners, nor honesty, but to gabble like
To allay with some cold drops of modesty
comedy. No more words: away! go, away!
Thy head, thy sovereign; one that cares for thee,
That mothers shall but smile when they behold
Sit, sir, sit.
For this relief much thanks: 'tis bitter cold,
No, I'll none of it: I pray thee keep that for the
To grace this latter age with noble deeds.
So man and man should be;
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
find, I warrant you, that there is no tiddle toddle
Poor Clarence, by thy guile betrayed to death!
A gentleman, sent from the king, to see you.
Than twenty times your stop: but, O vain boast!
Me they shall feel while I am able to stand: and
Say that before Ascension-day at noon
Fools are not mad folks.
Ay, four, in buckram suits.
I' faith, his hair is of a good colour.
My father hath a reason for't.
Of equal friendship and proceeding. Alas, sir,
I'm out of patience.
grow to, he had a kind of taste; well, my conscience
[Within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
Sir,
But yet I'll go in hate, to feed upon
Come your ways; follow me.
What say you, master?
That here was at the wrestling?
Holding the eternal spirit against her will,
Your were is alike to reap a proper man:
For truth can never be confirm'd enough,
SCENE II. The street before the prison.
Thy father bears the type of King of Naples,
Quarrel sir! no, sir.
Look to it, lords! let not his smoothing words
And you.
The unaccustom'd terror of this night,
Find out thy brother, wheresoe'er he is;
And make a conquest of unhappy me,
False to his children or his wife's allies
to play it in?
This is the latest glory of thy praise
No heretics burn'd, but wenches' suitors;
Still exaction!
The natural fool of fortune. Use me well;
My legs can keep no pace with my desires.
And thou shalt find it, Dauphin, do not doubt.
Never to speak of this that you have heard,
A pretty period! Well, I guess the sequel;
and wife is one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
Beware the thane of Fife. Dismiss me. Enough.
The very way to catch them.
Lo, as at English feasts, so I regreet
Let him that is a true-born gentleman
Bearing a state of mighty moment in't
This is the night
Or rather then set forward; for 'twill be
To royalty unlearn'd, honour untaught,
When women cannot love where they're beloved!
What is your pleasure, madam?
some laudable attempt either of valour or policy.
Than this kind kiss. O Lord, that lends me life,
And, that my love may appear plain and free,
I thank you, sir,
Dost thou believe't?
Scrambling, out-facing, fashion-monging boys,
As this instructs thee, thou dost make thy way
Asses.
Titus Andronicus, the people of Rome,
Where dust and damn'd oblivion is the tomb
himself is in love with Mistress Anne Page: but
The want that makes him lean. Who dares, who dares,
I have tumbled past the throw; and in his praise
The world may read in me: my body's mark'd
And do as I have bid you.
'Tis not his fault, the spark.
My tender years, and let us not forego
There wanteth now our brother Gloucester here,
That fly me thus? some villain mountaineers?
Their arms are set like clocks, stiff to strike on;
Be pleased that I shake off these names you give me:
Prithee, peace:
If Warwick be so near as men report.
You'll pay me the eight shillings I won of you at betting?
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
With her to thee; and this addition more,
Bind fast his corky arms.
All the better; their fraction is more our wish than
Gifts that God gives.
are: but precise villains they are, that I am sure
I let forth your half-pint of blood; back,--that's
For inequality; but let your reason serve
If I could add a lie unto a fault,
Servant in arms to Harry King of England;
If he be slain, say 'I'; or if not, no:
Intelligent of our state; what hath been seen,
Sirrah carrier, what time do you mean to come to London?
Our scene is alter'd from a serious thing,
My better service, when my turpitude
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
To let an arrogant piece of flesh threat us,
Proclaim it, provost, round about the city.
He would have well becomed this place, and graced
it is the stubbornest young fellow of France, full
Chide me no more. I'll mountebank their loves,
I will not do't.
But for my brother not a man would speak,
Tell him thy entertainment: look, thou say
people cry 'Troilus'? Helenus is a priest.
those that do in: now thou dost ill to say the
Suspend thy purpose, if thou didst intend
Fare you well, gentlemen.
Who pass'd, methought, the melancholy flood,
For I do love her most unfeignedly.
Enter CHARLES, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, REIGNIER, and forces
A lunatic lean-witted fool,
Fie, for shame!
And but for our approach those sleeping stones,
And say I am Revenge, sent from below
To make my lady laugh when she's disposed,
Even in his throat--unless it be the king--
Go in with us and see: we have an hour's talk with
Neither call the giddiness of it in question, the
Ah, ha! Come, some music! come, the recorders!
Large sums of gold and dowries with their wives:
On Saturday we will return to France.
But silence, like a Lucrece knife,
caviare to the general: but it was--as I received
Farewell! a long farewell, to all my greatness!
I bear Antonio, that I follow thus
Sweet recreation barr'd, what doth ensue
Without repugnancy? If there be
Making the hard way sweet and delectable.
Have I had children's voices?
And those his golden beams to you here lent
Never yet taint with love, I send the king.
bed of Ware in England, set 'em down: go, about it.
You are never without your tricks: you may, you may.
I go, my lord.
Be't so. Proceed.
yourself clear, why, I am glad of it; but if you
You must needs yield your reason, Sir Andrew.
But now thy uncle is removing hence:
Was not the Duke of Orleans thy foe?
Which had they, what four throned ones could have weigh'd
'Le chien est retourne a son propre vomissement, et
Since you are strangers and come here by chance,
all shall eat and drink on my score; and I will
To make it wander in an unknown field?
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven;
Get you hence, sirrah; saucy fellow, hence!
Perjury, perjury, in the high'st degree
And in the essential vesture of creation
sitting, as I say, in a lower chair, sir; 'twas in
Is to do thus; when such a mutual pair
Stand I before thee here. Then if thou hast
spoken; I have locked the letter in my closet:
to leave the dam.
And this word 'love,' which graybeards call divine,
I draw a sword against conspirators;
They do not mark me, and that brings me out.
Seems to cry out, 'How shall that Claribel
From off the battlements of yonder tower;
But for these instances.
Why should I not? doth he not deserve well?
Enter JAQUENETTA and COSTARD
The veins unfill'd, our blood is cold, and then
Nor need you, on mine honour, have to do
And Suffolk's cloudy brow his stormy hate;
Which I was much unwilling to proceed in
That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm,
Is there a murderer here?  No. Yes, I am:
Ten thousand years together, naked, fasting,
coffer, chest, trunk, well, vault, but he hath an
knave, mine host.
that thou art heir apparent--But, I prithee, sweet
It is too starved a subject for my sword.
Wherefore was I to this keen mockery born?
Exeunt TROILUS, AENEAS, and ULYSSES
challenger's youth I would fain dissuade him, but he
presence must be the whip of the other.
How much ye would?
Whose face I never saw?
Shall bear along impawn'd, away to-night!
leg, it was formed under the star of a galliard.
Hence, saucy eunuch; peace!
That brain'd my purpose. But, peace be with him!
epilogue alone.
To save your brother from the sacrifice;
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
It needs not, nor it boots thee not, proud queen,
More than the wild-cat: drones hive not with me;
Already to their wormy beds are gone;
In thy heart-blood, though being all too base
What light is light, if Silvia be not seen?
Than one which holds a trencher.
SCENE II. Another part of the island.
Let her awhile be secretly kept in,
Why, man, how black?
the princess my sister called my father father; and
And we shall shock them. Nought shall make us rue,
In mind and feature: I persuade me, from her
But with good will. To show our simple skill,
We are to speak in public; for this business
As of a man faithful and honourable.
wherefore the king, most worthily, hath caused every
Southwark? I thought ye would never have given out
I saw his heart in 's face. Give me thy hand:
their noses are led by their eyes but blind men; and
her paint an inch thick, to this favour she must
Are not you a coward? answer me to that: and Poins there?
I pray you, speak with me: you shall at least
He was in the right; and so indeed it is.
thee, eat it.
Our imputation shall be oddly poised
With a more larger list of sceptres.
I will bestow you where you shall have time
Got with much ease. Now merrily to horse:
Shall I not have barely my principal?
Lest I revenge. What, myself upon myself?
Enter ABHORSON
O let no noble eye profane a tear
May make against the house of Lancaster.
Enter Priest
Before I saw you; and the world's large tongue
This is the foul fiend Flibbertigibbet: he begins
I shall find you anon.
Much weightier than this work. The queen's in labour,
Your silence most offends me, and to be merry best
He takes false shadows for true substances.
let me in.
Whilst I had been like heedful of the other:
If you shall please so, pilgrim.
The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?
Against the envy of less happier lands,
As is the other for beauteous modesty.
Now, Ursula, when Beatrice doth come,
Therefore devise with me how we may fly,
If you did know, my lord, my master's wants--
There art thou happy: Tybalt would kill thee,
Flourish. Re-enter, from one side, SATURNINUS  attended, TAMORA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON and AARON; from the other, BASSIANUS, LAVINIA, and others
A very tainted fellow, and full of wickedness.
In such a night
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes; believe
That sucks the nurse asleep?
Enter CLOTEN
Though that my death were adjunct to my act,
Unless you have the grace by your fair prayer
And take his thanks that yet hath nothing else.
I will not meet with you to-morrow night:
the composition of a knave, beggar, coward, pandar,
A mother and two brothers: but, O scorn!
Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
Ready.
when he shall come to his account, he knows not
Some true love turn'd and not a false turn'd true.
Ay, but that fool knows not himself.
Great Hercules is presented by this imp,
And when that we have dash'd them to the ground,
Invites the King of England's stay at home;
places: your hearts are mighty, your skins are
So farewell, Reignier: set this diamond safe
Nay, answer me: stand, and unfold yourself.
As my mother was, the first hour I was born.
When we will tempt the frailty of our powers,
But now, my lord, what say you to my suit?
So many thousand times? Go, counsellor;
'Tis true, indeed; so your daughter says: 'Shall
RICHARD
A repulse: though your attempt, as you call it,
Who, if it had conceit, would die, as I
most sage demoiselle dat is en France.
Meet me within this hour at Baynard's Castle.
Why, then, I think Cassio's an honest man.
which is in the keeping of Paulina,--a piece many
Soon kindled and soon burnt; carded his state,
Have with you.
And see our gentle queen how well she fares:
To hopeless restitution, so he might
If we do meet again, why, we shall smile;
Madam, I had.
faith and my heart of steel,
Which now the public body, which doth seldom
Perdie, your doors were lock'd and you shut out.
Bishop, farewell: shield thee from Warwick's frown;
And fall somewhat into a slower method,
But she's best married that dies married young.
That rise thus nimbly by a true king's fall.
Brave death by speaking, whether he will or no;
wagers recorded.
You may light on a husband that hath no beard.
Whose present grace to present slaves and servants
If by direct or by collateral hand
I do confess my fault;
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
My master, and my lord!
A figure of truth, of faith, of loyalty:
Of whom he had this ring.
Dance in Duke Theseus' house triumphantly,
Why, my horse, my love, my horse.
thoroughly woo her, wed her and bed her and rid the
'Besides, you waste the treasure of your time with
And being not done, where doing tends to ill,
Whose bookish rule hath pull'd fair England down.
Even so our houses and ourselves and children
But must condemn it now. Desist, and drink.
ACT IV
No harm.
Do, with his smirch'd complexion, all fell feats
I pardon that man's life. What was thy cause? Adultery?
Are in thy vessel: let me cut the cable;
That we our largest bounty may extend
O Fates, come, come,
Alack, our terrene moon
But who did bid thee join with us?
Of parallels, as like as Vulcan and his wife:
full stomach.
The greater therefore should our courage be.
I have sent Cloten's clotpoll down the stream,
Bu t yet I slew him manfully in fight,
Can cunning sin cover itself withal!
That pure congealed white, high Taurus snow,
What I have done my safety urged me to;
And then I'll presently attend you.
Who please to come and hear. For life, I prize it
methought I had,--but man is but a patched fool, if
know himself.
For me?
That we remember. There is our commission,
O, think upon the conquest of my father,
With one of Priam's daughters.
No medicine in the world can do thee good;
His will is most malignant; and it stretches
To revel in the entrails of my lambs.
When all our offices have been oppress'd
the princess; I say none so fit as to present the
of all count.
The venison first shall be the lord o' the feast;
O God, your only jig-maker. What should a man do
Of the unworthiest siege.
Tell her I am arrested in the street
SCENE II. Corioli. The Senate-house.
His tongue obey'd his hand: who were below him
She made great Caesar lay his sword to bed:
And bring us word unto Octavius' tent
Which swell'd so much that it did almost stretch
Here, man; I am at thy elbow.
'Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and
Forswear not thyself, sweet youth, for I am not
a puppet or an aglet-baby; or an old trot with ne'er
A creature of the queen's, Lady Anne Bullen.'
Here is the steed, we the caparison:
By those Welshwomen done as may not be
Here, there, and every where, enraged he flew:
[Aside]  For all this same, I'll hide me hereabout:
Your son, George Stanley: look your faith be firm.
Go to, sirrah, tell the king from me, that, for his
As you feel doing thus; and see withal
physician, and Sir Hugh hath shown himself a wise
cold brook,
Once to behold with your sun-beamed eyes,
Cold death aside, and with the other sends
not there for the goose.
May draw with you: there's millions now alive
Unwilling to outlive the good that did it;
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GLOUCESTER, and Servants
A distaff to a lance, gilded pale looks,
Not virtuously on his own part beheld,
To worry lambs and lap their gentle blood,
Are these thy bears? we'll bait thy bears to death.
This is it that makes me bridle passion
Thou art too like the spirit of Banquo: down!
Upon the stroke of four.
But Athenian found I none,
In hewing Rutland when his leaves put forth,
Awake remembrance of these valiant dead
He hath not told his thought to the king?
Such noble scenes as draw the eye to flow,
An instrument of this your calling back,
Wherein your cunning can assist me much.
Immortal Dian!
As are companions noted and most known
about to say? By the mass, I was about to say
To appoint some of your council presently
I would your grace
And, in the fleshment of this dread exploit,
I'll fish for thee and get thee wood enough.
There's not a man I meet but doth salute me
He merits well to have her, that doth seek her,
Into the fatal bowels of the deep.
My soul the father; and these two beget
The beggar's nurse and Caesar's.
How should that be?
So I believe; but Thurio thinks not so.
New-bent in heaven, shall behold the night
I know not where; but wheresoever, I wish him well.
Until the elder sister first be wed:
Enter VARRIUS
Why, there, there, there, there! a diamond gone,
Every fairy take his gait;
And they are often tarred over with the surgery of
As doubtful whether what I see be true,
Ay, and the approbation of those that weep this
My reformation, glittering o'er my fault,
We live to tell it you, the subtle traitor
And bring you where both fire and food is ready.
And pardon comes: I shall anon advise you
Not so, my lord; it is not so, I swear;
ACT III
sir, such answer as I can make, you shall command;
Of what personage and years is he?
Save what is opposite to England's love.
I know him as myself; for from our infancy
Of York, is it not?
Collected from all simples that have virtue
He had been aboard, carousing to his mates
O villain! thou hast stolen both mine office and my name.
By savage Cleon: she shall tell thee all;
The miserable change now at my end
I thank thee for that jest; here's a garment for't:
The cockerel.
Now tell me, madam, do you love your children?
No teeth for the present. Get thee gone: to-morrow
clients: though you change your place, you need not
You are too hot.
though not personal, have been royally attorneyed
I will encounter darkness as a bride,
And wherein Rome hath done you any scath,
And thus most humbly I do take my leave.
Noble, courageous high, unmatchable,
O, that I were a glove upon that hand,
Casca, by your voice.
Grossly grew captive to his honey words
'Tis France, for England.
By Bushy, Bagot and their complices,
First Serving-Man	Villains, answer you so the lord protector?
I will do't:
Whose frown hath made thee faint and fly ere this!
Thy counsel, lad, smells of no cowardice,
Of my cousin Vernon's are not yet come up:
That he shall not offend your majesty.
Him I forgive my death that killeth me
Prithee, let her alone, and list to me.
It must be himself, then.
O, they are our friends; but one cup: I'll drink for
My lord, in the base court he doth attend
And with a low submissive reverence
I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,
Of youth upon him; from which the world should note
I would be trebled twenty times myself;
Together with my brave Egyptians all,
After them! nay, before them, if we can.
Exeunt
Although by confiscation they are ours,
Where, where, Messala, doth his body lie?
Holla, you clown!
Went they not quickly, I should die with laughing.
Why 'Heart's ease?'
This argues fruitfulness and liberal heart:
And range with humble livers in content,
what: what have I brought you to do?
Good day to both of you.
Now I know you better.
Of virtue for the name: but do not so:
But here is Carlisle living, to abide
come to pass, say Pompey told you so.
wolf in greediness, dog in madness, lion in prey.
you, of the Roman disciplines, than is a puppy-dog.
This was my wish: 'Be thou,' quoth I, ' accursed,
If I know you well,
Skill infinite or monstrous desperate.
Of its own kind, all foison, all abundance,
Lest, being over-proud in sap and blood,
He was indeed the duke; out o' the substitution
Which would have been as speedy in your end
We'll have dancing afterward.
And all combined, save what thou must combine
More that I may call men than you, good friend,
The Moor! I know his trumpet.
Good sir, why do you start; and seem to fear
Come, gentlemen, let's all go visit him:
How bravely thou becomest thy bed, fresh lily,
What, with the case of eyes?
Of an ensuing evil, if it fall,
I tell thee,
You yours, Orlando, to receive his daughter:
Here comes Bohemia.
Lord of his reason. What though you fled
By inch-meal a disease! His spirits hear me
For being not mad but sensible of grief,
Of man and beast the infinite malady
Where got'st thou that goose look?
silence, and work the peace of the present, we will
Unless thou rescue him from foul despair?
O' the world I would pursue it.
Do you mark that, my lord?
And hums, as who should say 'You'll rue the time
In the devotion of a subject's love,
Prithee, return: with thy approach, I know,
You throw a strange regard upon me, and by that
Bury it certain fathoms in the earth,
Hath into monstrous habits put the graces
Let the rest go.
I will, and know her mind early to-morrow;
Howsoe'er 'tis strange,
Thanks, you the valiant of this warlike isle,
there was very little honour showed in't. For my own
The one my duty owes; but my fair name,
Pay with falsehood false exacting,
Well, here is my leg.
your 'quaes,' and your 'quods,' you must be
O, what may man within him hide,
Out of the pain you suffer'd, gave no ear to't.
To be a secondary at control,
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
Did but convey unto our fearful minds
it is naught. In respect that it is solitary, I
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
And common good to all, made one of them.
grass: and when I am king, as king I will be,--
He hath promised you more than that, or there be liars.
for God's sake: pray you, examine him upon that point.
half stewed in grease, like a Dutch dish, to be
Say, has our general met the enemy?
But, my lads, my lads, to-morrow morning, by four
Upon the heath.
My lord?
Make me a curse like this.
What comfort is for Claudio?
As old as Sibyl and as curst and shrewd
nor garlic, for we are to utter sweet breath; and I
The armipotent Mars, of lances the almighty,
upon this riddle runs the wisdom of the world. This
And shall my youth be guilty of such blame?
Are joyfully return'd.
so: they are in a most warlike preparation, and
Let them affright thee. I beseech thee, youth,
And all the Greekish girls shall tripping sing,
Are gone to Bolingbroke, dispersed and fled.
Than if thou never hadst deserved our hate.
Receive it from me, then: war and confusion
How now, fair maid?
The gods forbid!
A man is master of his liberty:
As if a god, in hate of mankind, had
Not ours, or not allow'd; what worst, as oft,
Exit Secretary
Enter KING CLAUDIUS
For Cassius is aweary of the world;
O, my lord, wisdom and blood combating in so tender
And shall, or him we will accompany.
Adieu, good queen; I must attend on Caesar.
Sir, there is especial commission come from Venice
shall be dry again.
reason with them.
Well; then I shall see thee again?
things should be: all difficulties are but easy
This very day,
sallet, my brainpan had been cleft with a brown
We'll follow them with all the power we have.
But he and his shall know that justice lives
'Tis no matter for his swellings nor his
No.
The Athenians both within and out that wall!
A friend.
How far is it to Berkeley? and what stir
If it were damnable, he being so wise,
Enter three or four Servitors
And, to be short, for not appearance and
The same,
And all our princes captiv'd by the hand
Of any king's in Europe. I do think
Thou friend of an ill fashion!
How shall she be endow'd,
That thou art thus estranged from thyself?
And chop away that factious pate of his.
SCENE VI. Before Macbeth's castle.
To weep their intermissive miseries.
Than when you left him; even now he sung.
And he shall be Vincentio of Pisa;
I also wish it to you. I think this honourable lord
These earthly godfathers of heaven's lights
To what they were before. My pretty cousin,
Where in the purlieus of this forest stands
The attribute to awe and majesty,
he?
Go, leave me.
O love! O life! not life, but love in death!
For trust not him that hath once broken faith,--
Fair glass of light, I loved you, and could still,
Imagine Pericles arrived at Tyre,
good must of necessity hold his virtue to you; whose
Either of king or council, when you went
Strike the drum.
Prithee, put up.
The roofs of palaces, and nature prompts them
SCENE II. A room in LEONATO's house.
As broad Achilles; keeps his tent like him;
some occasion to anger Cassio, either by speaking
And he hath brought us smooth and welcome news.
To my poor cell, where you shall take your rest
And welcome home again discarded faith.
Enter AUTOLYCUS and a Gentleman
No wonder, sir;
I pray, you, tell me, hath any body inquired
Hath shook and trembled at the ill neighbourhood.
By this we gather
And for because the world is populous
The liquid drops of tears that you have shed
That by degrees we mean to look into,
Attested by the holy close of lips,
Here, there, and every where, he leaves and takes,
has given you one face, and you make yourselves
love; very near this. I'll speak to him again.
Are strewings fitt'st for graves. Upon their faces.
Nay, but do so, then: and, look you, he may come and
Among a sisterhood of holy nuns:
To have it added to the faults of mine,
I was adopted heir by his consent:
And what remains will hardly stop the mouth
And I dare think he'll prove to Desdemona
And even as I was then is Percy now.
We came into the world like brother and brother;
That it becomes a virtue.
Fear it not, sir: I would I were so sure
Three times hath Henry Bolingbroke made head
Did never meddle with my thoughts.
Upon the rising of the mountain-foot
burden: do you sing it, and I'll dance it.
Only make trial what your love can do
Any thing.
You came not of one mother then, it seems.
Creaking my shoes on the plain masonry,
Did never traitor in the land commit.
Master, there is three carters, three shepherds,
For, well I wot, thou hast thy mother's tongue.
If it hath ruffian'd so upon the sea,
What things are these, my lord Antonio?
after my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex?
So I say.
The Duke of Gloucester, to whom the order of the
so many talents, nay, urged extremely for't and
I had a Richard too, and thou didst kill him;
Exit Attendant
Tim Richard wear the garland of the realm.
fairs and market-towns. Poor Tom, thy horn is dry.
And those things do best please me
O, not by much.
You will do it?
mistress. Thou pratest, and pratest; serve with thy
Will maintain it with some little cost.
Pray you, sir, do you know of this matter?
The sight of me is odious in their eyes;
For this proud mock I'll be thy slaughterman;
Taurus!
And tried his inclination; from him pluck'd
And I'll devise a mean to draw the Moor
To be a make-peace shall become my age:
Outbrave the heart most daring on the earth,
Who cannot be crushed with a plot?
Why, therefore fire; for I have caught extreme cold.
You breathe in vain.
very strange beasts, which in all tongues are called fools.
Quite from himself to God. But now behold,
There is my hand, and let it feel your ear.
Do deeds worth praise and tell you them at night.
Despising many forfeits and subduements,
And take it from a heart that wishes towards you
imagine me too unhurtful an opposite. But indeed I
With anger, with sickness, or with hunger, my lord,
For I must tell you friendly in your ear,
Proud northern lord, Clifford of Cumberland,
Whistling to the air; which, but for vacancy,
You shall not go: a lady's 'Verily' 's
Rather rejoicing to see another merry, than merry at
Or how far further shall, is warranted
All that served Brutus, I will entertain them.
That art a votary to fond desire?
Till we assign you to your days of trial.
Exeunt DUKE VINCENTIO and Provost
Then, no, my lord. My suit is at an end.
That every stride he makes upon my land
He swore consent to your succession,
Why should Titania cross her Oberon?
La fin couronne les oeuvres.
Proceed in practise with my younger daughter;
[Within]  I thought to have asked you.
Who, holding in disdain the German women
That, doting on his own obsequious bondage,
When he himself might his quietus make
To GONERIL
And in his full and ripen'd years himself,
Shall we refresh us, sir, upon your shore,
Alack, bare-headed!
next month? and are they not some of them set
Sink in the trial. Comes his army on?
Thy grave-stone daily: make thine epitaph,
To tell you true, I counterfeit him.
Nor did you think it folly
For their advantage and your highness' loss.
You gods, look down
What will you do, now my necessity
Fie on thee, wretch! 'tis pity that thou livest
I do entreat you, not a man depart,
Page, which is pretty virginity.
Some slain before; some dying; some their friends
Christian burial.
Good, yet remember whom thou hast aboard.
I have heard, but not believed,
trouble: the fashion of the world is to avoid
Away! vexation almost stops my breath,
Enter KING HENRY and EXETER
A plague of all cowards, I say, and a vengeance too!
He is not emulous, as Achilles is.
With a light heart; trust not my holy order,
O wicked wall, through whom I see no bliss!
Marry, and shall. But how now, Sir John Hume!
And welcome, nephews, from successful wars,
fear, the angle that plucks our son thither. Thou
They belch us. Look you, Cassio and my husband!
And, like the baseless fabric of this vision,
Re-enter CURTIS
My shame will not be shifted with my sheet:
To your eye,
may easily put it off at court: he that cannot make
Rumour it abroad
more; and, sweet my child, let them be men of good
But I, a maid, die maiden-widowed.
Loved Mall, Meg and Marian and Margery,
Exit HERMIONE, guarded; with Ladies
Guard her till Caesar come.
Money and order for their furniture.
Exeunt in manner as they entered
To him that does best: God forbid else. Cardinal,
Enter LUCIUS, IACHIMO, the Soothsayer, and other  Roman Prisoners, guarded; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS behind, and IMOGEN
ruffians bald;
a green-a box: do intend vat I speak? a green-a box.
Journeys end in lovers meeting,
And we for fear compell'd to shut our shops.
Believe what?
Praising her when I am dumb.
in our more rawer breath?
And not have strew'd thy grave.
Lord cardinal,
But I have none: the king-becoming graces,
He looks like sooth. He says he loves my daughter:
Very well, my liege.
dismount thy tuck, be yare in thy preparation, for
Be to thy person, noble father-in-law!
You thus employ'd, I will go root away
Therefore let every man now task his thought,
To high promotions and great dignity:
O God's name, see the lists and all things fit:
Yes, good sooth: to, Achilles! to, Ajax! to!
And bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs,
Good morrow, general.
Five justices' hands at it, and witnesses more than
It is not so. Ask them how many inches
You cannot tent yourself: be gone, beseech you.
Is not a thing to laugh to scorn.
This stain upon her?
No, sir: yet oft,
Till Katharina the curst have got a husband.
Here, quite confounded with this mutiny.
He speaks well.
His study is his tilt-yard, and his loves
That flies her fortune when it follows her.
Or else the lady's mad; yet, if 'twere so,
Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
Now, my dearest queen,--
Through all the kingdoms that acknowledge Christ:
Chain mine arm'd neck; leap thou, attire and all,
What's your affair I pray you?
Good morrow to your worship.
so old to dote on her for any thing: I have years
Of saucy and audacious eloquence.
when he is worst, he is little better than a beast:
see but the issue of my jealousy: if I cry out thus
Bolder, though not so subtle. My valour's poison'd
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
Enter FRIAR PETER
Caius Ligarius doth bear Caesar hard,
For many years thought dead, are now revived,
Marry, to say she came to seek you there. You shall
There were so many, whom she may accuse.
transcends.
How honourable and how kindly we
Leave me awhile.
More than with ruthless waves, with sands and rocks.
He should have leave to go away betimes,
Nor would we deign him burial of his men
Art not acquainted with him? knows he not thy voice?
better, whilst I have a tooth in my head: why, he's
Which, at more leisure, I will so excuse
Here, here she comes. I'll have a bout with thee;
learned, like Sir Proteus, to wreathe your arms,
For sufferance is the badge of all our tribe.
O, be not moved, Prince Troilus:
That, like an engine, wrench'd my frame of nature
There, hold!
All the quarters that they know
Forgive me, cousin! Ah, dear Juliet,
I'll make her come, I warrant you, presently.
Do the low-rated English play at dice;
Knowing she will not lose her wonted greatness,
to my mother, your mistress, and make much of her.
And so it is: I wonder what it bodes.
And am well studied for a liberal thanks
monster, or my standard.
Is gone, we know not how nor where.
believe it was done in fight, and persuaded us to do the like.
Her face defaced with scars of infamy,
I would, false murderous coward, on thy knee
Finger of birth-strangled babe
This is the hand that stabb'd thy father York;
O, my good lord, yonder's foul murders done!
I kiss'd it; and it gave me present hunger
Where are they? Gone? Let this pernicious hour
But that the heavens fought: the king himself
The moon shines fair; you may away by night:
[Reads]	Hermione is chaste;
So please your grace, the Prologue is address'd.
Do call it valiant fury: but, for certain,
When sapless age and weak unable limbs
I had rather hear a brazen canstick turn'd,
To offer war where they should kneel for peace;
Else what a mockery should it be to swear!
So rare a gentleman as Signior Benedick.
The master of the cross-bows, Lord Rambures;
There, where your argosies with portly sail,
Of thy deep duty more impression show
Out upon him! prig, for my life, prig: he haunts
Was this upon myself: what I am truly,
To towers and windows, yea, to chimney-tops,
To burn the lodging where you use to lie
Excellently.
Before the sun rose he was harness'd light,
Then forth, dear countrymen: let us deliver
SCENE VII. Another part of the field.
Must needs want pleading for a pair of eyes:
We have been called so of many; not that our heads
Orsino's enemy. A witchcraft drew me hither:
You may not, my lord, despise her gentle suit.
To gnaw their garners. Worshipful mutiners,
Feasts are too proud to give thanks to the gods.
decorum, and fortune him accordingly!
Let him do his spite:
think but, in the end, the villainies of man will
He had no other death's-man. Let us see:
Like all mankind, show me an iron heart?
You did nothing, sir.
Nay, nay, let Rape and Murder stay with me;
With many bitter threats of biding there.
Come, sir, dispatch. If thou couldst, doctor, cast
Look to my house. I am right loath to go:
great a prince as you are.
The trusty Thisby, coming first by night,
Took her own way. The manner of their deaths?
Witty, courteous, liberal, full of spirit.
'Zounds, I will speak of him; and let my soul
Horns within
favour to you;
Add to my clamours! let us pay betimes
And thence she cannot be convey'd away.
May concern Caesar.
resorters stand upon sound legs. How now!
Your laboursome and dainty trims, wherein
Ha! let me see: ay, give it me, it's mine:
Too great for what contains it. Boy! O slave!
If my passion change not shortly, God forbid it
Away! for every thing is seal'd and done
Will you be gone?
To play the broker in mine own behalf;
Accounted dangerous folly: why then, alas,
I promise, I am afraid to hear you tell it.
They set him free without his ransom paid,
From forth thy reach he would have laid thy shame,
Of this so noble and so fair assembly
Lies on my tongue: no, Percy, thou art dust
That can assure my daughter greatest dower
Do't not, thou split'st thine own.
not beneath him in fortunes, beyond him in the
My wife, her sister, and a rabble more
Should have hare-hearts, would they but fat
most weak pia mater.
To be thus taunted, scorn'd, and baited at:
If we have unearned luck
More than my dancing soul doth celebrate
We cannot all be masters, nor all masters
And so espoused to death, with blood he seal'd
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
Shall for the fault make forfeit of his head.
endanger my soul gratis? At a word, hang no more
Born in Verona, old Antonio's son:
Yet needful too; for youth no less becomes
Come, swear it, damn thyself
Cassandra, call my father to persuade.
time gentler than other, and at every putting-by
His means most short, his creditors most strait:
I dreamt my lady came and found me dead--
'Tis torture, and not mercy: heaven is here,
I did so, and went further, which is now
SCENE II. Mytilene. A room in a brothel.
The mysteries of Hecate, and the night;
But is your grace dead, my Lord of Somerset?
Keepers, convey him hence, and I myself
mocked me before: but come your ways.
On what submissive message art thou sent?
But, good my Lord, do it so cunningly
I'll fight with him alone: stand, Diomed.
You scorn: believe me, 'twere best I did give o'er.
I wonder if the lion be to speak.
How now, Captain Fluellen! come you from the bridge?
Nor God, nor I, delights in perjured men.
would, are as secret as maidenhead; to your ears,
Pointing to the Child in the arms of an Attendant
John, here is the heart of my purpose: you are a
Which is to me some praise that I thy parts admire:
hurt home to-day? he's not hurt: why, this will do
Be not afraid: I met her deity
Therefore, my lords, omit no happy hour
But cried 'Good seaman!' to the sailors, galling
Your daughter, if you have not given her leave,
As this hath made me. Who was he that said
Her natural posture!
Enter FLUELLEN
What hast thou done, unnatural and unkind?
Therefore, as you unwind her love from him,
Enter PAGE, FORD, MISTRESS PAGE, MISTRESS FORD, and SIR HUGH EVANS
From thine invention, offers: women are not
Tears of true joy for his return to Rome.
O, pardon me, Signior Gremio; I would fain be doing.
speak it to you, I think the king is but a man, as I
And to imperial Love, that god most high,
But give them to his master for a present.
Doth flourish the deceit. Come, let us go:
knave, a thin-faced knave, a gull!
And dimm'd mine eyes, that I can read no further.
No, nor look'd on us.
Not so, my lord; for his valour cannot carry his
son,
Who governs here?
As much as ever Coriolanus did.
And bears his blushing honours thick upon him;
A riding-suit, no costlier than would fit
would vouchsafe the answer.
In stiff unwieldy arms against thy crown:
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt:
Where foxes, geese: you are no surer, no,
with the finger of my substance: if he take her,
are born to do benefits: and what better or
As very infants prattle of thy pride.
A good construction. I raised him, and I pawn'd
Ay, and laying autumn's dust.
And he my husband best of all affects.
Look, sir.
I'll not be made a soft and dull-eyed fool,
That will be ere the set of sun.
And prodigally gave them all to you.
Our dinner done, and he not coming thither,
In thy faint slumbers I by thee have watch'd,
Consenting to the safeguard of your honour,
To see the statue of our queen: your gallery
He whom my father named? your Edgar?
And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?
did: I met this man with my glove in his cap, and I
To mine own children in good bringing up:
impudency, learned without opinion, and strange with-
Nothing but sit and sit, and eat and eat!
And speak his very heart.
Exeunt
What's in a name? that which we call a rose
inclination of the people, especially of the younger sort?
Which I with sword will open.
O Iago, the pity of it, Iago!
Then die a calf, before your horns do grow.
Be executed by nine to-morrow morning:
am the dog: no, the dog is himself, and I am the
O'er lawyers' fingers, who straight dream on fees,
Lysander! what, removed? Lysander! lord!
Which yet seem shut, we, have but pinn'd with rushes;
For then I'll marry Warwick's youngest daughter.
[Within]                Let her come in.
Well, I will for refuge straight to Bristol castle:
though absent, shook hands, as over a vast, and
Welcome, Publius.
belongs to't. Ask me if I am a courtier: it shall
Alas!
Methought it did relieve my passion much,
prevailing and to make it brief wars. This is true,
Bade me come smiling and cross-garter'd to you,
god kissing carrion,--Have you a daughter?
Here's too much 'out upon thee!' I pray thee,
My operant powers their functions leave to do:
And none but fools do wear it; cast it off.
Seats herself on the ground
Here come our brothers.
I would he had continued to his country
One of their kind, that relish all as sharply,
ANTIPHOLUS
Sometimes he talks as if Duke Humphrey's ghost
What, are you hurt, lieutenant?
any more to your tents: I will keep where there is
That, lying by the violet in the sun,
We term it 'mulier:' which 'mulier' I divine
I am very sorry that you are not well.
To speak of Perdita, now grown in grace
In at the window, or else o'er the hatch:
I will tell her, sir, that you do protest; which, as
there will she sit in her smock till she have writ a
the people.
I pry'd me through the crevice of a wall
And never to let Beatrice know of it.
Unto the legions on the other side.
Send for him, good uncle.
For he that steeps his safety in true blood
see where he looks out of the window.
great maker of cuckolds.
You are a merry man, sir: fare you well.
Which when he has a house, he'll deck withal
Evermore thanks, the exchequer of the poor;
My noble general, Timon is dead;
Out, you green-sickness carrion! out, you baggage!
Wake and find nothing. But, alas, I swerve:
Came this from Hamlet to her?
A pretty moral;
fledged; and then it is the complexion of them all
An thy mind stand to't, boy, steal away bravely.
That most desired the match; but not a courtier,
Re-enter LUCIUS
the wind is loud, and will not lie till the ship be
If she did know me one. Away with her!
Is creeping toward me; how far off, how near;
[To VIOLA]  There's no remedy, sir; he will fight
To suffer, with a quietness of spirit,
Asses are made to bear, and so are you.
I will, sir.
We'll burn the house of Brutus.
Therefore lay bare your bosom.
Sleep dwell upon thine eyes, peace in thy breast!
In aught an eunuch has: 'tis well for thee,
With all these living in philosophy.
Love can transpose to form and dignity:
[Aside to CELIA]  I will speak to him, like a saucy
Though they themselves did suffer by't, behold
Whilst others come to make him lose at home:
Cut off the heads of too fast growing sprays,
And what he will, I humbly yield unto.
Time and the hour runs through the roughest day.
Wrong not her birth, she is of royal blood.
And that old common arbitrator, Time,
Hath he not reason to turn back an hour in a day?
Enter YORK, WARWICK, and others
'Twas but a bolt of nothing, shot at nothing,
There I couch when owls do cry.
Have patience, gentle friends, I must not read it;
But give me leave to try success, I'ld venture
No, to the dignity and height of honour
But such an honest chronicler as Griffith.
The bold winds speechless and the orb below
the alehouse. What miserable praise hast thou for
By the imprisoning of unruly wind
I'll go watch.
cunning in fence, I'ld have seen him damned ere I'ld
Exit APEMANTUS
No, uncle, I'll none: Adam's sons are my brethren;
SCENE V. The Tower-walls.
The duke is coming: see the barge be ready;
That Bevis was believed.
Where goes Cesario?
Peace, you rogue, no more o' that. Here comes my
My speech and what is done, tell him he has
And all my mother came into mine eyes
The Fairies sing
For policy sits above conscience.
And you, sir. I have been with your father, and
The tender leaves of hopes; to-morrow blossoms,
Those that would die or ere resist are grown
Than my Lord Hastings no man might be bolder;
addition I can: I will not be long from you.
How much more is his life in value with him?
fortunes! O joy, e'en made away ere 't can be born!
In Warwickshire I have true-hearted friends,
Then we are rid of Licio.
Those are they
When he perceived me shrink and on my knee,
Acquainted me with interest to this land,
Where?
have his head on her shoulders for all Messina, as
And speaks not to himself but with a pride
Well, if Percy be alive, I'll pierce him. If he do
purpose that the world can say against it; and
Enter CLAUDIO
Laud we the gods;
And so he comes, to rend his limbs asunder.
On me, and you, and mine, and yours for this!
And sometime make the drink to bear no barm;
Whose fall the mark of his ambition is.
O, she says nothing, sir, but weeps and weeps;
Well, well, we'll leave you.
Heirs of your kingdoms, my poor house to visit,
Air, quoth he, thy cheeks may blow;
And should you fall, he as the next will mount.
And nothing brings me all things. Go, live still;
I dare your quenchless fury to more rage:
Re-enter BARDOLPH, running
Is as our earing. Fare thee well awhile.
That I am clear from this misdeed of Edward's,
And his to me:
brother till you can derive from him better
Over her passion; who, most rebel-like,
not.
To every eyeball else. Go take this shape
That to your wanting may be minister'd.
I will become as liberal as you;
Half-part, mates, half-part.
rapes and ravishments he parallels Nessus: he
Yet Caesar shall go forth; for these predictions
SCENE II. The same. Before Calchas' tent.
Open the gates; we are King Henry's friends.
Some innocents 'scape not the thunderbolt.
cannot get, he may lawfully deal for--his wife's soul.
Gadshill lies to-night in Rochester: I have bespoke
Do not presume too much upon my love;
be just! This is the letter he spoke of, which
besides, you grow dishonest.
'I know,' quoth he, 'no house, no wife, no mistress.'
One sorrow never comes but brings an heir,
As friend remember'd not.
To any other trust but that I am mad
He came but to be Duke of Lancaster,
Who smirch'd thus and mired with infamy,
I had not quoted him: I fear'd he did but trifle,
Have humbled to all strokes: that I am wretched
I'll to the Tower with all the haste I can,
[Aside to NORFOLK]          I another.
Sir Topas, Sir Topas!
whence you have studied your questions.
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
But from Lord Angelo by special charge.
accept his service.
morning. We must all to the wars, and thy place
Has made thee swell thus.
Nay, weep not, gentle Eros; there is left us
Their coronets say so. These are stars indeed;
I pray you, tell me how my good friend doth.
To any count, to all counts, to what is man.
O Thou, whose captain I account myself,
No, madam, no; I may not leave it so:
Enter four or five of the Guard of MARK ANTONY
Soft! take thy physic first--thou too--and thou;--
It pleases time and fortune to lie heavy
And none but women left to wail the dead.
The one side must have bale.
The blind to bear him speak: matrons flung gloves,
Hopest thou my cure?
No hope to have redress? My body shall
Enter a Messenger
tabour, if thy tabour stand by the church.
Nor I in yours
Wherefore a guard of chosen shot I had,
The sixth and last, the which the knight himself
Well, I do commend her choice;
That's Helenus. I marvel where Troilus is. That's
Know man from man? dispute his own estate?
the right!
him: if you would not, it were a good sign
'Twill make me think the world is full of rubs,
So fare you well at once; for Brutus' tongue
[Reads]  'Great deputy, the welkin's vicegerent and
And never more abase our sight so low
Exeunt
Thy foot to England's throne; and therefore mark.
Help, ho! murder! help!
I would correct him.
To make the fox surveyor of the fold?
Mine eyes
When I was last in Holborn,
There is some sap in this.
Will not endure his yoke; and for ourself
And never mayst thou come Lysander near!
Which they distil now in the curbed time,
I pluck this pale and maiden blossom here,
Stands in the gap and trade of moe preferments,
The sixth of July: Your loving friend, Benedick.
I must excuse myself, Master Ford.
is your daughter.
Rogue, rogue, rogue!
Stand.
From flowery tenderness? If I must die,
And what he is that now is leap'd into it.
Even in your armours, as you are address'd,
Taste, touch and smell, pleased from thy tale rise;
Under Sir Thomas Erpingham.
matters as he, but I give heaven thanks and make no
wonder at Angelo. How will you do to content this
And I again, in Henry's royal name,
that she may be the better prepared for an answer,
Hume's knavery will be the duchess' wreck,
With his inducement.
Ay, if a' have no man's blood in's belly than will
Re-enter Provost
them: the lord mayor craves aid of your honour from
A passion hateful to my purposes,
The ministration and required office
not to do your office, as you will answer it at your peril.'
That's your superstition.
O,--Desdemona,--
Turn this way, Henry, and regard them not.
He never was so womanish; the cause
I have engaged myself to a dear friend,
Ay, and perversely she persevers so.
Hold, take these keys, and fetch more spices, nurse.
But was a race of heaven: they are so still,
By your good favour, too sharp; men so noble,
Those wounds heal ill that men do give themselves:
I had rather be in this choice than throw ames-ace
Whose arms were moulded in their mothers' womb
All levied in my name, have in my name
All that pass by. It cannot hold: no reason
Exit
Shall be my recreation: so long as nature
Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke, and made
laid to the charge of women?
This shall assure my constant loyalty,
attends your ladyship's pleasure.
To see your grace.
come out. Ha! bots on't, 'tis come at last, and
unhappily; as of unnaturalness between the child
To see the things thou dost not. Now, now, now, now:
But ere the crown he looks for live in peace,
For the rest of the Worthies?--
[Within]  Who is that at the door that keeps all
For this effect defective comes by cause:
And so farewell and thrive.
passion of wonder appeared in them; but the wisest
Content you, gentlemen: I will compound this strife:
And of how coward a spirit.
With no sauce that can be devised to it. I protest
You may be pleased to catch at mine intent
Lest unadvised you stain your swords with blood:
I am your wife, if you will marry me;
How do you? how do you?
And your horse now would make him an ass.
How may I reverently worship thee enough?
Commend me to my loving countrymen,--
'Twere best he speak no harm of Brutus here.
with an unpitied whipping, for you have been a
O, sir, his lackey, for all the world caparisoned
You do mistake your business; my brother never
Leaves Tarsus and again embarks. He swears
Welcome, mistress.
Hath not essentially but by circumstance
A gentleman that well deserves a help:
O, what a noble combat hast thou fought
None could be so abused in sight as he.
And I.
ACT I
Or a keeper with my freedom;
Is of a constant, loving, noble nature,
none of Pygmalion's images, newly made woman, to be
Exeunt
Be you not troubled with the time, which drives
Handlest in thy discourse, O, that her hand,
Whither I invite you. Look, Thaisa is recovered.
Was he a gentleman?
Now boast thee, death, in thy possession lies
if room enough!
he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
I have observed thee always for a towardly prompt
Indeed! is't true?
Exit
Shut up your doors, my lord; 'tis a wild night:
Where is my strength, my valour, and my force?
Enter POSTHUMUS, with a bloody handkerchief
tragedians of the city.
These are old fond paradoxes to make fools laugh i'
But earthlier happy is the rose distill'd,
Nay, stare not, masters: it is true, indeed.
By his blunt bearing he will keep his word,
Parolles, was it not?
Aside
And, to relief of lazars and weak age,
To thank thee for the love thou show'dst the king,
But judge you as you are? O, think on that;
A servant grafted in my serious trust
Consider of it.'
To vouch this, is no proof,
And consequently thy rude hand to act
I talk but idly, and you laugh at me.
In wholesome manner.
My studied purposes requite; which went
Where should I lose that handkerchief, Emilia?
me. She speaks poniards, and every word stabs:
Have so incensed that I am reckless what
No, I'll be sworn.
I pray, talk me of Cassio.
Faith, look you, one cannot tell how to say that:
In what thou hadst to say: so, with good life
Re-enter BIONDELLO
Turning from him
Get thee to yond same sovereign cruelty:
Then, madam, stand resolved, but hope withal
please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
Do so, it is a point of wisdom: fare you well.
Am I to put our Cassio in some action
publish her; she bore a mind that envy could not but
Renowned Pompey!
Even for this time I spend in talking to thee.
I remember.
For love is still most precious in itself;
Away betimes, before his forces join,
Poor Clifford! how I scorn his worthless threats!
I have great hope in that; for in her youth
give him some good counsel, for he seems to have the
Indeed she is.
How now! why look'st thou pale? why tremblest thou?
So long a-growing and so leisurely,
Winter's not gone yet, if the wild-geese fly that way.
I do beseech you, pardon me; I may not show it.
Unnatural though thou art. Their understanding
Which, like a usurer, abound'st in all,
A foolish suitor to a wedded lady,
I would cure you, if you would but call me Rosalind
fleshes his will in the spoil of her honour: he hath
That they take place, when virtue's steely bones
Take him hence; to the rack with him! We'll touse you
Caphis, I say!
O, were it but my life,
Sheriff, farewell, and better than I fare,
Herself hath taught her love himself to write unto her lover.
So that we fled; the king unto the queen;
The ceremony?
He is then a giant to an ape; but then is an ape a
whiteness in them; but I guess it stood in her chin,
So shall he waste his means, weary his soldiers,
O, if in black my lady's brows be deck'd,
Goes into the trunk. The scene closes
Following,--her womb then rich with my young squire,--
Here was a gentleman of Normandy:--
O gross and miserable ignorance!
What, no attendance? no regard? no duty?
Mark'd he your music?
Which since we cannot do to make you friends,
and pulls me: ha, ha, ha!
I do forgive thee.
Tell me thine first.
For I am loath to break our country's laws.
What is the business?
On the enchafed flood.
politic love.
Exception bid him speak, and at this time
The tale of Tereus; here the leaf's turn'd down
And now, sweet emperor, be blithe again,
My gracious lord, my lovely Saturnine,
That is one may reach deep enough, and yet
And, as we walk along, I dare be bold
'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by.
Here lies the east: doth not the day break here?
And leave you not a man-of-war unsearch'd:
eyes too, examined my parts with most judicious
avoids them with great discretion, or undertakes
soul!' and forgave him with all their hearts: but
will make it my quarrel.
This paper, thus seal'd up; and, I am sure,
Arm, arm, my name! a puny subject strikes
Of thee, my dear one, thee, my daughter, who
And last eat up himself. Great Agamemnon,
any dishonesty.
In Volscian breasts. That we have been familiar,
But we will drink together; and you shall bear
Obedient as the scabbard. What is here?
Ilium? good niece, do, sweet niece Cressida.
Even with a treacherous fine of all your lives,
So I do: but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by right.
Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS, with their Army
and to detract. If all the wine in my bottle will
But thither would I hie.
Whereon this month I have been hammering.
Salutes each other with each other's form;
That head, my lord?
For the instalment of this noble duke
And I will chain these legs and arms of thine,
I? I care not an she were a black-a-moor; 'tis all one to me.
I will not fail: 'tis twenty years till then.
That it's had it head bit off by it young.
Exeunt
Safely, I think: 'twas a contention in public,
Call all in all sufficient? Is this the nature
tooth-ache: but a man that were to sleep your
Where I may wallow in the lily-beds
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
Troilus now! You shall see Troilus anon.
One business does command us all; for mine Is money.
And gracious be the issue!
In these two princely boys! They are as gentle
not warily, fall into foul bogs. I had rather have
Then thus I turn me from my country's light,
Both you of my inclining, and the rest:
In leads or oils? what old or newer torture
That magical word of war, we have effected;
With thy grapes our hairs be crown'd:
O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
I prophesied, if a gallows were on land,
Good Maria, let this fellow be looked to. Where's
The man I am.
together with the common lag of people--what is
him, though removed fifty times, shall all come
Till Bolingbroke have pardon'd thee. Away, be gone!
Grates me: the sum.
His body to that pleasant country's earth,
And now, so you will let me quiet go,
Attended by my men: I will make bold
Free from the bondage you are in, Messala:
For, certes, these are people of the island--
Under whose heavy sense your brother's life
Or lace for your cape,
When you have conquer'd my yet maiden bed,
To whose ingrate and unauspicious altars
I fast and pray'd for their intelligence--thus:
Whose eye beck'd forth my wars, and call'd them home;
And plead his love-suit to her gentle heart?
Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
'Scape being drunk for want of wine.
Good Ursula, wake my cousin Beatrice, and desire
Good faith, and when I met this holy man,
have been as good as my word.
What tellest thou me of black and blue? I was
Misprising what they look on, and her wit
Re-enter DON PEDRO
Besides, the king's name is a tower of strength,
For the blood-bolter'd Banquo smiles upon me,
As far as I could ken thy chalky cliffs,
Then did they imitate that which I composed to my
rich fellow enough, go to; and a fellow that hath
Come, sir, away.
A worthy officer i' the war; but insolent,
for all he be a Roman: and there be some of them
Of her delivery to this valiant Greek
Put forth thy hand, reach at the glorious gold.
From worthy Edward, King of Albion,
Is proclamation made, that who finds Edward
Remembers not these garments; nor I know not
Which way should be go? how should I bestow him?
I never gave it him: send for him hither;
Excellent! why, this is the best fooling, when all
Hold, there's expenses for thee.
charge it against me. I pray you choose another subject.
thee to thy uncle's.
I think not so, my lord.
the gift of fortune; but to write and read comes by nature.
Was the first man that leap'd; cried, 'Hell is empty
The bark is ready, and the wind at help,
Yes, better, sir.
Only give order for my funeral:
And if my legs were two such riding-rods,
saving your honour's reverence, for stewed prunes;
And I, who at his hands received my life, him
Like true, inseparable, faithful loves,
Nay, truly, sir, I could never say grace in all my life.
Come, brother John; full bravely hast thou flesh'd
Hath here distrain'd the Tower to his use.
The special watchmen of our English weal,
The mortal worm might make the sleep eternal;
What do you call the play?
these four threes of herdsmen.
Your wit's too hot, it speeds too fast, 'twill tire.
Hath told you Caesar was ambitious:
For happy wedlock hours.
from lenders' books, and defy the foul fiend.
ACT I
Francis!
And no man see me more.
And as I truly fight, defend me heaven!
Enter MACBETH and BANQUO
casket, you should refuse to perform your father's
Sir,
So have we all, of joy; for our escape
No wonder, my lord: one lion may, when many asses do.
it will; if he shake his tail and say nothing, it will.
I stabb'd your fathers' bosoms, split my breast.
What's the matter?
That cause sets up with and against itself!
thee: methinks, thou art a general offence, and
To the dead bodies: I will apprehend him.
And think you now are all in Mytilene.
Wide o' the bow hand! i' faith, your hand is out.
A largess universal like the sun
I will seek out Falstaff.
What's that?
The close contriver of all harms,
Thy greatest help is quiet, gentle Nell:
Then is all safe, the anchor's in the port.
Who is it that hath died for this offence?
the beds of eels as my giving out her beauty stir up
And yet as heavy as my weight should be.
It is in us to plant thine honour where
How doth my lady? Is my father well?
A many of our bodies shall no doubt
To push against a kingdom, with his help
Lavinia, come. Marcus, look to my house:
O deadly sin! O rude unthankfulness!
That it might go on wheels!
Too curst is more than curst: I shall lessen God's
What, wilt thou not? Where is that devil's butcher,
Non, je reciterai a vous promptement: de hand, de
To one so meek, that mine own servant should
Welcome father.
And not o' the court of Britain.
Perpetual durance?
Well, let his father be what a' will, we talk of
Marry, mine host, because I cannot be merry.
Enter ADRIANA, LUCIANA, the Courtezan, and PINCH
The greatest note of it is his melancholy.
Her pretty action did outsell her gift,
And when that hour o'erslips me in the day
A fortnight and odd days.
That ever eye with sight made heart lament!
Pray, walk awhile.
the dirt: thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown,
To assist my simpleness.
to suggest thee from thy master thou talkest of;
Hear from me, it shall be for thy good.
little ones: I can compare our rich misers to
Where there was no proportion held in love.
Enter the Boy with a linstock
About thy thoughts and counsels of thy heart!
running banquet of two beadles that is to come.
Susan and she--God rest all Christian souls!--
Christian.
came in foot and hand; and with a thought seven of
I could not answer in that course of honour
My lord, I long to hear it at full.
The fifth, an hand environed with clouds,
Some stay to see him fasten'd in the earth.
They found the bed untreasured of their mistress.
Your wisdom is consumed in confidence.
By this you shall not know,
The king's physician: as he pass'd along,
touching the hit it?
My business cannot brook this dalliance.
Re-enter BARDOLPH, with FORD disguised
Thou wast a pretty fellow when thou hadst no need to
The gods will diet me with. Prithee, away:
From heartiness, from bounty, fertile bosom,
And do submit me to your highness' mercy.
Here lurks no treason, here no envy swells,
This forenamed maid hath yet in her the continuance
Thou let'st thy fortune sleep--die, rather; wink'st
That, being unseminar'd, thy freer thoughts
bots, swayed in the back and shoulder-shotten;
Exeunt
Our viands had been poison'd, or at least
Who once a day with his embossed froth
ANTIPHOLUS
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF YORK, young YORK, QUEEN ELIZABETH, and the DUCHESS OF YORK
I am sorry, sir, I have thus far stirr'd you: but
I know thee not: thy name?
well as a man in his case may do: has here writ a
Which might be felt; that we, the poorer born,
The darnel, hemlock and rank fumitory
Look, sir, your mother!
To take that course by your consent and voice,
Enter Servant
For such a wish! he was not born to shame:
perpetual triumph, an everlasting bonfire-light!
Clap round fines for neglect: ye are lazy knaves;
Sirrah, here's a fellow will help you to-morrow in
Deserves your hate; and your affections are
DON
Of our rank feud: but the just gods gainsay
the discharge: your neck, sir, is pen, book and
Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!
Where is Montjoy the herald? speed him hence:
My vow was earthly, thou a heavenly love;
As unrelenting flint to drops of rain.
Here was a Caesar! when comes such another?
And beauty that the tyrant oft reclaims
If you do wrongfully seize Hereford's rights,
My tongue could never learn sweet smoothing word;
your arm, like a lieutenant's scarf? You must wear
and, God be thanked, well to live.
ACT V
To none of these, except it be the last;
Sir, it is three days since I saw the prince. What
More is thy due than more than all can pay.
Yet I am none: whose tongue soe'er speaks false,
On all deservers. From hence to Inverness,
And, having both together heaved it up,
Whither?
rather, gentle princess, because I love thee
But that it doth presage some ill event.
There I shall see mine own figure.
Where but even now with strange and several noises
She strikes him
respect it is not in the court, it is tedious. As
Would be find up, my brother, with our thanks;
All my smooth body.
God save you, madam!
Knocks
to fright me, if they could. But I will not stir
When the day serves, before black-corner'd night,
For the ingredients of our cauldron.
Lords, knights, and gentlemen, what I should say
But hateful docks, rough thistles, kecksies, burs,
I am no idle votarist: roots, you clear heavens!
Is Silvia dead?
This tune goes manly.
That's more to me than my wetting: yet this is your
Heigh, heigh! the devil rides upon a fiddlestick:
As next the king he was successive heir,
Will make him burst his lead and rise from death.
Ay, marry, must you; for you must understand he goes
I was your mother much upon these years
And presently took post to tell it you:
Exeunt Officers with MISTRESS OVERDONE
Desire him not to flatter with his lord,
woman, she's a good wench for this gear. Father,
Even with the same austerity and garb
You dog!
Confined in all she has, her monument,
Why did I marry? This honest creature doubtless
Lie in the interpretation of the time:
Here's a Bohemian-Tartar tarries the coming down of
All happiness to your honour!
Abhorred slave,
And not to spend it so unneighbourly!
Be merry, and employ your chiefest thoughts
Ay, sir, the sergeant of the band, he that brings
O my dear kinsman! Prince, as thou art true,
Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers!
that thou't scarce worth.
Which dreads not yet their lives' destruction.
it shall advantage thee more than ever the bearing
And at that time he got his wife with child:
Who, if he live, will scarce be gentlemen,
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
Standing your friendly lord.
And your large speeches may your deeds approve,
An honest, willing, kind fellow, as ever servant
But he's deceived; we are in readiness.
on myself, must I? You have not the Book of Riddles
of it. A prize! a prize!
Is't possible, friend Licio, that Mistress Bianca
Where there's another man: the vows of women
O Pandarus! I tell thee, Pandarus,--
Enter BARNARDINE
His tongue is now a stringless instrument;
Let us leave here, gentlemen.
Help to search my house this one time. If I find
And it hath pleased him that three times to-day
King, be thy thoughts imperious, like thy name.
Can qualify the same?
God and your arms be praised, victorious friends,
Without the king's will or the state's allowance,
And this his son; England was Geffrey's right
rib-breaking? Shall we see this wrestling, cousin?
Therefore, to be possess'd with double pomp,
Northampton and in Leicestershire, shalt find
Enough.
Our archers shall be placed in the midst
Hate all, curse all, show charity to none,
In all my writings: go with me, and see
performance is ever the duller for his act; and,
He dares not come there for the candle; for, you
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
Such as she says my lord did say I was.
arms and heads, chopped off in battle, shall join
Daring the event to the teeth, are all in uproar,
fourscore ducats!
If thou inclinest that way, thou art a coward,
You worthy tribunes,--
This is a man's invention and his hand.
Stepp'd before larges of proof, cannot be found:
time, there do muster true gait, eat, speak, and
as the first of May doth the last of December. But I
And for thy treachery, what's more manifest?
Black night o'ershade thy day, and death thy life!
tale, when th' other's come to't. Hector shall not
SCENE II. Troy. A room in Priam's palace.
Despised, distressed, hated, martyr'd, kill'd!
Holden at Bury the first of this next month.
Holy Franciscan friar! brother, ho!
Will scare the herd, and so my shoot is lost.
magician, most profound in his art and yet not
curse of mankind, folly and ignorance, be thine in
buy for a remuneration?
The debt he owes will be required of me.
There's ne'er a villain dwelling in all Denmark
Pardon, guest-justice. A word, Mounseur Mockwater.
And batters down himself: what should I say?
I am a king, and privileged to speak.
Fie, de la Pole! disable not thyself;
On thee, the troubler of the poor world's peace!
master agree? I have brought him a present. How
Because some tell me that thou art a king.
SCENE V. A park near Middleham Castle In Yorkshire.
I hate the murderer, love him murdered.
Must not continue friends.
Mistress Anne Page. I pray you, be gone: I will
of company. I think, if your husbands were dead,
Do to this body what extremes you can;
Whate'er it bodes, henceforward will I bear
To rush into the secret house of death,
How now, bully-rook! thou'rt a gentleman.
world hath not a sweeter creature: she might lie by
Exeunt all but KENT and Gentleman
would say so.
Was sulphurous to smell: the holy eagle
'Bring action hither, this cannot go to war:
My tears that fall
As I would be forgiven: I forgive all;
Is dearly bought; 'tis mine and I will have it.
Wotting no more than I, are ignorant.
SCENE I. The wood. TITANIA lying asleep.
To whom do you speak this?
Within this hour my man shall be with thee
In acclamations hyperbolical;
Proud of their numbers and secure in soul,
Must I with base tongue give my noble heart
Good bawcock, bate thy rage; use lenity, sweet chuck!
To foreign passages, and in the end,
Or fill up chronicles in time to come,
We all expect a gentle answer, Jew.
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
And three times as much more, and yet nothing at
Saint Alban.
You have heard much.
Re-enter Officers, with CLEOMENES and DION
And now falls on her bed; and then starts up,
If you outstay the time, upon mine honour,
Nerissa. Sirrah, go before.
Enter WARWICK, CLARENCE, OXFORD, SOMERSET, and French soldiers, silent all
head: what matter have you against me?
Plays such fantastic tricks before high heaven
Upon my hateful life: another way,
Posthumus, thy head, which now is growing upon thy
You shall.
Hark! Hector's trumpet.
Here had the conquest fully been seal'd up,
Priests pray for enemies, but princes kill.
think what a man is: let her consider his frailty,
transgresses is but patched with sin; and sin that
With shining chequer'd slough, doth sting a child
This fellow's of exceeding honesty,
I have a mind to strike thee ere thou speak'st:
I know not what I shall incur to pass it,
And I do fearfully believe 'tis done,
The forfeit, sovereign, of my servant's life;
Antonius!
Stay not for the love of Edward, but the crown.
Enter FORD with PISTOL, and PAGE with NYM
And never did desire to see thee more.
ANTIPHOLUS
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
Short tale to make, we at Saint Alban's met
with scorn, write to him that I love him?'
Thou shalt not know the sound of thine own tongue.
And could not get him for my heart to do it.
For all your fair endeavors; and entreat,
By all the laws of war you're privileged.
Were slily crept into his human powers
Alarum within. Enter DUNCAN, MALCOLM, DONALBAIN, LENNOX, with Attendants, meeting a bleeding Sergeant
Ill spirit, I would hold more talk with thee.
Led him, begg'd for him, saved him from despair;
What, is my Richard both in shape and mind
The affliction nor the fear.
testimony in your complexion that it was a passion
Re-enter third Servingman
Even so by love the young and tender wit
No; yet time serves wherein you may redeem
Kissing her
We'll none of that: that have I told my love,
SCENE III. The same.
Yea, there thou makest me sad and makest me sin
If those that care to keep your royal person
To view the field in safety and dispose
Why, but there's many a man hath more hair than wit.
I have from their confines call'd to enact
He is unqualitied with very shame.
For yet his honour never heard a play--
for there are liars and swearers enow to beat
Your leave and favour to return to France;
Enter FLAMINIUS.
She were an excellent wife for Benedict.
cover; they show well outward. The prince and Count
But, too unruly deer, he breaks the pale
between Macedon and Monmouth, that the situations,
Neighbour'd by fruit of baser quality:
I will tell you
wooing of a peascod instead of her, from whom I took
I cannot, nor I will not, hold me still;
O God, she comes!
deed and word? is it a true thing?
I'll help you, Sir Toby, because well be dressed together.
Peace! stand aside: the company parts.
Of one sore I an hundred make by adding but one more L.
Is nor of heaven nor earth, for these are pleased.
Of Charles the duke of Lorraine, sole heir male
Most certain. Let our catch be, 'Thou knave.'
By force took Dromio and my son from them
Whose life's as tender to me as my soul!
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
To which that blast gives heat and stronger glowing;
I think nobly of the soul, and no way approve his opinion.
If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
Who hath for four or five removes come short
To say you have seen a better.
Hear me, queen:
And it shall be as all the ocean,
Enter HORATIO and a Servant
let me have Claudio's head sent me by five. Let
Yes, that I did; but that was but courtesy.
And so rebel to judgment.
The tide is now: nay, not thy tide of tears;
With you, mine alder-liefest sovereign,
Long live she so! and long live you to think so!
Gaoler, look to him.
Fail not our feast.
'Tis mine; and this will witness outwardly,
All together here
That you might still have worn the petticoat,
To do him good?
Hold, here's more gold for thee.
gentleman but gardeners, ditchers, and grave-makers:
Distinguish form: so your sweet majesty,
Neglect me, lose me; only give me leave,
This is a gentle provost: seldom when
and, upon my life, fast asleep. Observe her; stand close.
But I, for mere suspicion in that kind,
down together, I plucked this glove from his helm:
Alack, where are you speak, an if you hear;
So it should seem by that I have to say.
when she's fallen out with her husband. Your noble
Thou canst not hit it, my good man.
Exeunt with CAESAR's body
Some lively touches of my daughter's favour.
Ah, rogue!
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourly grow
[Aside to BERTRAM]  O, for the love of laughter,
Gorged with the dearest morsel of the earth,
this civil buffeting hold, we shall buy maidenheads
Unyoke this seizure and this kind regreet?
Nay, by the mass, that he did not; he beat him most
SCENE I. Athens. The palace of THESEUS.
To Asher House, my Lord of Winchester's,
She is abused, stol'n from me, and corrupted
And burn him with their tapers.
Ay, my good lord.
When time is old and hath forgot itself,
[Kneeling]               Your blessing, sir.
Good mother, fetch my bail. Stay, royal sir:
From our blest altars. Publish we this peace
Hath it not, boy?
The noble Paris and true Romeo dead.
If you go out in your own semblance, you die, Sir
Boy!
I have sat here all day.
Broke be my sword, my arms torn and defaced,
Like to a little kingdom, suffers then
Exit JOHN OF GAUNT
Madam, I am protector of the realm;
Our house, my sovereign liege, little deserves
Enter, from one side, AENEAS, and Servant with a  torch; from the other, PARIS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, DIOMEDES, and others, with torches
Exit THYREUS
And you are well met, Signior Hortensio.
TITUS LARTIUS, having set a guard upon  Corioli, going with drum and trumpet toward  COMINIUS and CAIUS MARCIUS, enters with Lieutenant, other Soldiers, and a Scout
give thee leave to die: but if thou diest before I
For mischiefs manifold and sorceries terrible
Exeunt
Hast thou the pretty worm of Nilus there,
Between our sovereign and the French king Charles,
It is not so express'd: but what of that?
To come again to Carthage.
O God, which this blood madest, revenge his death!
If I may ever know thou dost but sigh
He is my brother too: but fitter time for that.
I sought a husband, in which labour
Importunes personal conference with his grace:
You know me dutiful; therefore, dear sir,
Welcome, Iago; we must to the watch.
Because thou art a woman, and disclaim'st
Enter AGAMEMNON, ULYSSES, DIOMEDES, NESTOR, AJAX, MENELAUS, and CALCHAS
Why, worthy father, what have we to lose,
That likewise have we thought upon, and thus:
And she will be your scholar: therefore look to it.
And of women.
And therefore, Tranio, for the time I study,
But in a sieve I'll thither sail,
And not relent, or not compassion him?
SCENE I. The Forest of Arden.
SCENE IX. Another part of the plains.
As loud, and to as many tunes: hats, cloaks--
The unlucky manage of this fatal brawl:
out of it you'll run again, rather than suffer
Not you, correct him. My heart weeps to see him
despair not.
Be call'd Posthumus Leonitus; and
They should be good men; their affairs as righteous:
seek not to alter me.
Let this be done.
Come, my fair Cordelia.
to swim in. Now a little fire in a wild field were
no longer in monument than the bell rings and the
Ah, ha, boy! say'st thou so? art thou there,
and one thing more, that you be never so hardy to
All tongues to talk their bitterest.
heart, and my duty, and my life, and my living, and
Exeunt
Well struck in years, fair, and not jealous;
the fat knight with the great belly-doublet: he
Why, know you not? the lords are all come back,
The tenor of them doth but signify
'scape hanging for killing that rogue. I have
And henceforward all things shall be in common.
Enter IMOGEN
sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
We might proceed to cancel of your days;
Re-enter Nurse
Cousin, look not sad:
Ay, Silvia; for your sake.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die, to sleep;
Heaven bless thee!
never fell upon our nation till now; I never felt it
With wine and feeding, we have suppler souls
'Tis strange he hides him in fresh cups, soft beds,
Enter YOUNG CLIFFORD
So sure as this beard's grey,
I think not so.
say, if he would incline to the people, there was
At this hour reigning there.
First, pardon me, my lord. A hue and cry
Kindled with unchaste desire,
Are not words duly hallow'd, nor my wishes
A limbeck only: when in swinish sleep
To those that, without heed, do plunge into 't.
She's a good creature, and, sweet lady, does
Let it alone; let's to billiards: come, Charmian.
Taken as seen; for Pompey's name strikes more
I have it, Tranio.
Dissemble all your griefs and discontents:
True; and therefore women, being the weaker vessels,
I have sent after him: he says he'll come;
Remember! yes.
and will she love him still for prating? let not
Have I not reason to look pale and dead?
Is this the Talbot, so much fear'd abroad
man, let it sleep? a bugbear take him!
make noise enough.
I cannot tell: long is it since I saw him,
My dukedom to a beggarly denier,
Can you advise me?
There is a purse of ducats; let her send it:
Yes, and will nobly him remunerate.
Enter the Travellers
Shall be engraved the sack of Orleans,
Ay, what of that?
There, Leonato, take her back again:
The nature of their crimes, that I may minister
My hate to Marcius: where I find him, were it
Fierce fiery warriors fought upon the clouds,
Must justify my knowledge.
And full of purpose.
In humblest manner I require your highness,
swear in both the scales against either scale;
What is infirm from your sound parts shall fly,
What means the nun? she dies! help, gentlemen!
I am joyful
How easy is it, then! Your constancy
Sweet huntsman, Bassianus 'tis we mean--
There is the playhouse now, there must you sit:
He, sir, that must marry this woman. Therefore, you
Hark you, Guildenstern; and you too: at each ear a
Woe, alas!
Speed how it will. I shall ere long have knowledge
It is war's prize to take all vantages;
Thou flatter'st misery.
hole, the cuckold to his horn, as a scolding queen
Why lament you, pretty one?
To leave a thousand-fold more bitter than
Let fools do good, and fair men call for grace.
As snow in harvest. Thou deceivest thyself:
shalt wear me, if thou wear me, better and better:
Delivered up again with peaceful words?
Messala,
Is your Englishman so expert in his drinking?
Enter FORD
Yet must not we put the strong law on him:
Dread lord, the commons send you word by me,
Confounds us. Hark! I laid their daggers ready;
You tempt him over-much.
cables of perdurable toughness; I could never
I do so, I confess it. Ah, sirrah, a body would
Cannot your Grace win her to fancy him?
Of this their purpose hither to this wood;
And the nobility of Rome are his:
Can do all this that he hath promised?
And that my fainting words do warrant death;
For he hath laid strange courtesies and great
gentleman of the greatest promise that ever came
That's as much as to say, they are fools that marry:
So said her woman; and that her sufferance made
When evil deeds have their permissive pass
The Moor, howbeit that I endure him not,
Thou dost so crown with gold! This blows my heart:
Enter DESDEMONA, IAGO, and Attendants
As thou didst kill our tender brother Rutland;
Dinner, ho, dinner! Where's my knave? my fool?
If none of them have soul in such a kind,
I warrant you, my lord, more grace than boy.
She lacks instructions, for she seems a mistress
To make you brothers, and to knit your hearts
Is growing to me by Antipholus,
Consider how it stands upon my credit.
I pray thee, stay with us; go not to Wittenberg.
And shall do so ever, though I took him at 's
That bear the shapes of men, how have you run
A king, perhaps, perhaps,--
In winter's tedious nights sit by the fire
Brutus, bay not me;
Caesar, I shall.
But him outlive, and die a violent death.'
Methought the billows spoke and told me of it;
There comes with them a forerunner, my lord, which
So said, so done, is well.
How is't, my noble lord?
Burn like the mines of Sulphur. I did say so:
to tell us Cupid is a good hare-finder and Vulcan a
This is a trick to put me from my suit:
courtly and thou art too cunning. At whose request
So makest thou faith an enemy to faith;
Tell me in sadness, who is that you love.
I will away towards Barnet presently,
Nay, this was but his dream.
To Bolingbroke.
If we may pass, we will; if we be hinder'd,
To you all three,
But Silvia is too fair, too true, too holy,
I bear no hatred, blessed man, for, lo,
Now, as I am a true woman, holland of eight
But shall't be shortly?
For, now they are oppress'd with travel, they
To search you out.
To the hearers, sir.
Enter MARCUS
Teach me to be your queen, and you my subjects:
Enter FORD, PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Hence-banished is banish'd from the world,
With hostile forces he'll o'erspread the land,
What says my lord?
Where is the king?
of hay: good hay, sweet hay, hath no fellow.
How so?
If murdering innocents be executing,
Come, trouble not yourself. Good Master Fenton,
A storm or robbery, call it what you will,
As thou and I; who, as thou know'st, are dear
Do not cry havoc, where you should but hunt
Enter EXTON and Servants, armed
wing of all occasions. But whatsoever I have
it hath seen very hot service. Lend me thy hand,
Petit monsieur, que dit-il?
there rust, and let me die.
My wife's a hobby-horse, deserves a name
As is a dead man's nose: but I do see't and feel't
Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH
Most certain, if you are she, you do usurp
Let go my hand.
Sit still, and hear the last of our sea-sorrow.
They have au denied him.
This diamond was my mother's: take it, heart;
By heaven, these scroyles of Angiers flout you, kings,
For which I razed my likeness. Now, banish'd Kent,
Forslow no longer, make we hence amain.
If that same demon that hath gull'd thee thus
That modesty may more betray our sense
[Aside]  So would I, till you had measured how long
As sure I think did never man love so--
Then, Bolingbroke, as low as to thy heart,
Well, gaoler, on. Pray God, Bassanio come
To FLORIZEL
and at his heels a rabble of his companions, thither
And gives to every power a double power,
But come, the bow: now mercy goes to kill,
directly and truly, I would think thee an honest
an ape, in the corner of his jaw; first mouthed, to
Exeunt
No, the world must be peopled. When I said I would
infidel! Ha! you shall see now in very sincerity
But to procrastinate his lifeless end.
This deadly blot in thy digressing son.
went to span-counter for French crowns, I am content
The Duke of York, to know what pricks you on
Enter THERSITES, solus
But leave their flocks; and, under your fair conduct,
man of my kidney,--think of that,--that am as subject
the victory. I am sorry for her, as I have just
Light boats sail swift, though greater hulks draw deep.
Ay, here's a deer whose skin's a keeper's fee:
As well the fear of harm, as harm apparent,
She is not well; convey her to  my tent.
And all those friends that deign to follow me.
But being so allow'd: to apprehend thus,
All France will be replete with mirth and joy,
Why, then, it is like, if there come a hot June and
And even here brake off, and came away.
Nor how to use your brothers brotherly,
Which they have given to beggars.
My mourning and important tears hath pitied.
Gloucester, thou wilt answer this before the pope.
Nor to the motion of a schoolboy's tongue,
From Hamlet! who brought them?
Nothing else: you shall see him a palm in Athens
be a list of an English kersey as be piled, as thou
O, help!
no money of me; but being enthralled as I am, it
The mean is drown'd with your unruly bass.
make known to you why I have done this. Come,
One word more, good lady.
Fulvia!
Exeunt
Mount them, and make incision in their hides,
No more. Good night:
O'erbear the shores of my mortality,
Reverend sir,
runs before her actions.
But if the cause be not good, the king himself hath
Than wishest should be undone.' Hie thee hither,
Was then scarce friends with him: I have heard
Was grown into a hoop? hast thou forgot her?
Arise, you shall not kneel:
The heaviness and guilt within my bosom
No good at all that I can do for him;
Was this fair face the cause, quoth she,
With the hell-hated lie o'erwhelm thy heart;
And put these same into young Arthur's hand,
When rank Thersites opes his mastic jaws,
Let heaven and men and devils, let them all,
And gave his countenance, against his name,
Rise up Sir John Mortimer.
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
From simple sources, and great seas have dried
Re-enter IAGO, with a light
To obey in all your daughters' hard commands:
troubled with a rheum;
To the platform, masters; come, let's set the watch.
Go bid thy mistress, when my drink is ready,
The nobles they are fled, the commons they are cold,
You have, my lord: would it might please your grace,
And therefore take this compact of a truce,
harmless fairy, monster.
Re-enter TROILUS
Of years, of country, credit, every thing,
To make her come and know her keeper's call,
Come hither, come hither. How did this argument begin?
What, thou speak'st drowsily?
before day. An the Prince and Poins be not two
Aside
And follow to thine answer.
As it is common for the younger sort
Exeunt
And thou, Posthumus, thou that didst set up
To see her coronation be perform'd.
That, like an eagle in a dove-cote, I
Madam, we'll play at bowls.
When all the world is here to look on me?
Exit, with PAROLLES guarded. A short alarum within
He might have took his answer long ago.
He may my proffer take for an offence,
Why, there they are both, baked in that pie;
she'll burn a week longer than the whole world.
in good time.
I protest, the schoolmaster is exceeding
No; it is not possible you should love the enemy of
SCENE IV. France. The KING'S palace.
The gods revenge it upon me and mine,
No, no, no, no! Come, let's away to prison:
to the country maid Jaquenetta:
encounter, after we had embraced, kissed, protested,
To the young Roman boy she hath sold me, and I fall
Come, will you go?
done, let the law go whistle: I warrant you.
thy hand, celestial; so. Boys of art, I have
Away with him! Who hath made this havoc with them?
Do feel the treason sharply, yet the traitor
Will play the cook and servant; 'tis our match:
All is well ended, if this suit be won,
I can hardly believe that, since you know not what
This proveth Edward's love and Warwick's honesty.
And your fair princess,--goddess!--O, alas!
We do, and vow to heaven and to his highness,
Exit FALSTAFF
He says they can do nothing in this kind.
horses ready?
To fight against that bloody homicide.
Where Caesar's is not; but, near him, thy angel
It will not be accepted, on my life:
thy fee is a thousand ducats.
The crows and choughs that wing the midway air
And when they from thy bosom pluck a flower,
Enter ROMEO
Yea, all my raiment, to my petticoat;
Because he hath a half-face, like my father.
measure in strength. If I could win a lady at
Would I propose to achieve her whom I love.
The thieves have bound the true men. Now could thou
this, dies instantly; I have seen her die twenty
Beg thou, or borrow, to make up the sum,
Do it, and happy; by my silver bow!
called so in mine own house before.
For practising to steal away a lady,
Three in Egypt
Leonato and his brother. What thinkest thou? Had
Ha! durst the traitor breathe out so proud words?
And undiscover'd come to me again
The greatest strength and power he can make,
entertainment.
Farewell, thou lob of spirits; I'll be gone:
An't like your grace,--
Here: what's the matter?
O, loving uncle, kind Duke of Gloucester,
piece of Eve's flesh as any in Illyria.
A mock is due. Will you walk on, my lord?
I'll privily away. I love the people,
Though you can guess what temperance should be,
He ran this way, and leap'd this orchard wall:
and doublets.
thou now find out to hide thee from this open and
That a woman conceived me, I thank her; that she
And liquor likewise will I give to thee,
'Tis this slave;--
Fear and be slain; no worse can come to fight:
Both are alike; and both alike we like.
If he, compact of jars, grow musical,
When truth kills truth, O devilish-holy fray!
time for all things.
In whose success we are gentle,--I beseech you,
Enter the Ghost of CLARENCE
Our mettle is bred out and they will give
Turk Gregory never did such deeds in arms as I have
I should leave grazing, were I of your flock,
But hear you, hear you!
Aside
Yet fear not thou, but speak audaciously.'
fortunes: his grace hath made the match, and an
What dost thou profess? what wouldst thou with us?
Prick'd to't by foolish honesty and love,
Then to Silvia let us sing,
O me, my heart, my rising heart! but, down!
O, give me leave:
And yet I will not name it; and yet I care not;
To cope malicious censurers; which ever,
Made to write 'whore' upon? What committed!
yet I determine to fight lustily for him.
And joint'st with them will be thy slaughtermen.
And yet, good Humphrey, is the hour to come
Larding the plain; and by his bloody side,
So far as thou wilt speak it.
How the rogue roar'd!
You understand me: over and beside
And like bright metal on a sullen ground,
Into as many gobbets will I cut it
her father be very rich, any man is so very a fool
In this the antique and well noted face
Methinks he looks as though he were in love:
O Hal, I prithee, give me leave to breathe awhile.
Did keep ten thousand men? was this the face
For whose dear sake thou wast but lately dead;
But, like a cloistress, she will veiled walk
Madam wife, they say that I have dream'd
Farewell, gentle mistress: farewell, Nan.
Exeunt
No devil will fright thee then so much as she.
I pray you, tell my lord and father, madam,
By heaven, I'll know thy thoughts.
'Conscience,' say I, 'you counsel well;' ' Fiend,'
Shed yet some small drops from thy tender spring,
be ruled by him.
I think, thy horse will sooner con an oration than
Than yet can be imagined or supposed.
Do you not smile at this, Lord Angelo?
that resemble something in me,--Softly! M, O, A,
of Limbo and of Furies and I know not what: yet I
Within these three hours, Tullus,
That I did never, no, nor never can,
I'll tell the news. Here comes the general.
As this that I have reach'd: for know, Iago,
I can tell thee pretty tales of the duke.
Within
We beg your hearing patiently.
I have sweat to see his honour. My honoured lord,--
Humbly to kiss your hand, and with my tongue
will not dispraise your sister Cassandra's wit, but--
worthiness would stir it up where it wanted rather
And not a man of them that we shall take
Good old knight,
And, Norfolk, throw down his.
So flew'd, so sanded, and their heads are hung
with thee to disgrace her.
'Sicilia is a so-forth:' 'tis far gone,
had losses, and one that hath two gowns and every
So easily open?
And all their minds transfigured so together,
Hangs upon mine eyes: let me rest.
Didst thou, Alonso, use me and my daughter:
fragment, some slender sort of his remainder: the
Why, so hath this, both by the father and mother.
Who's there? speak, ho! speak quickly, or I shoot.
wilt hear me,
Exeunt
Sir, 'tis the governor of Mytilene,
That I might sit all night and watch with you:
But hope to pluck a dainty doe to ground.
This goodly summer with your winter mix'd.
First he did praise my beauty, then my speech.
But, ere we go, regard this dying prince,
When Cressy battle fatally was struck,
They have all been touch'd and found base metal, for
I am sure I saw her wear it.
I have been up this hour, awake all night.
That thou nor none of thine shall be let in.
The help of mine own eyes.
Ourself and Bushy, Bagot here and Green
Thy nephews' souls bid thee despair and die!
drunk, yet I am not altogether an ass.
But fare ye well: 'tis partly my own fault;
Marrying a punk, my lord, is pressing to death,
Young gentleman, your spirits are too bold for your
Good morrow, neighbour Gremio.
Wherein I thee endow'd.
If not, our swords shall plead it in the field.
kindness of our profession, she has me her quirks,
Answer every man directly.
You are as fond of grief as of your child.
Or swell the curled water 'bove the main,
A simple countryman, that brought her figs:
From lowest place when virtuous things proceed,
And thrown into the sea. But I'll see further:
Who should succeed the father but the son?
name, accuse these men.
Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends,
By the mess, ere theise eyes of mine take themselves
Which he shall have: I'll pay the debt,
Thou hast thine own form.
The shrug, the hum or ha, these petty brands
O'er the vast world to seek a single man,
Come, Warwick, come, good Warwick, go with me;
Enter ANTIGONUS with a Child, and a Mariner
Do I shrink up.
beholder, that knew no more but seeing, could not
Have one man but a man? And that is it
Nay, a mother:
Unless it were a bloody murderer,
Good dawning to thee, friend: art of this house?
Be to the prejudice of her present state,
For the rain,  and c.
What do you call him?
His over-mounting spirit, and there died,
Enter OTHELLO and Attendants
I'll know
My father Glendower is not ready yet,
Minding true things by what their mockeries be.
Make thy demand aloud.
Pass our accept and peremptory answer.
My husband!
Be blamed for't how you might.
Gives not the hawthorn-bush a sweeter shade
SCENE VI. Another part of the field.
Exeunt
If not, to compass her I'll use my skill.
This just and learned priest, Cardinal Campeius;
There be fools alive, I wis,
Make motion through my lips, and my arm'd knees,
Your precious self had then not cross'd the eyes
But our new heraldry is hands, not hearts.
That mine own use invites me to cut down,
my shin th' other day with playing at sword and
Sweet Oxford, and my loving Montague,
God bless your grace! we see it, and will say it.
The squirrel's hoard, and fetch thee new nuts.
exquisite friend.
Very nobly
Make no collection of it: let him show
Wink at the Duke of Suffolk's insolence,
ale-washed wits, is wonderful to be thought on. But
I know thy constellation is right apt
He follow'd you; for love I follow'd him;
And only live by gazing.
All but in that! Good wax, thy leave. Blest be
Let not a traitor live!
Ay;
watching! In this slumbery agitation, besides her
Thou dost, and think'st it much to tread the ooze
Fly away, fly away breath;
Arise sir Richard and Plantagenet.
And when old time shall lead him to his end,
If you'll not here proclaim yourself our king,
Enter ROMEO
It sends some precious instance of itself
There, then, that vizard; that superfluous case
I care not if I have: it is my study
Singe my white head! And thou, all-shaking thunder,
Argo, their thread of life is spun.
lying! I grant you I was down and out of breath;
Enter SEBASTIAN and ANTONIO
And rank me with the barbarous multitudes.
Art thou, indeed?
They often feel a world of restless cares:
To yield what passes here.
Answer no more, for thou shalt be my queen.
Enter KING JOHN, ARTHUR, and HUBERT
[To FERDINAND and MIRANDA]  Give me your hands:
Good Hermia, do not be so bitter with me.
An you lie, sirrah, we'll have you whipped.
You barely leave our thorns to prick ourselves
Is yonder the man?
Enter BIANCA
What's best to ask. Know'st him thou look'st on? speak,
one and twenty fifteens, and one shilling to the
Or else let Talbot perish with this shame.
Reading out of a paper
would my master had Mistress Anne; or I would
O cousin, thou art come to set mine eye:
How now! are the horses ready?
Now question me no more; we are espied;
To LYSIMACHUS
friends? O, what a precious comfort 'tis, to have
Our guider, come; to the Roman camp conduct us.
Yet are the king's; and, till my soul forsake,
But entertain it,
the theatre, I am no true man.
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET,  PRINCE EDWARD, CLIFFORD, and NORTHUMBERLAND, with drum and trumpets
For this I owe you: here comes other reckonings.
You shall have ransom. Let me have surgeons;
And all your southern gentlemen in arms
Nothing concerning me.
Retain but privilege of a private man?
None, but that there is so great a fever on
furred pack, she washes bucks here at home.
Be these the wretches that we play'd at dice for?
Most fit for business: go make thee ready;
Well said, my lord! well, you say so in fits.
Shall give thee opportunity.' O damn'd paper!
foot-land rakers, no long-staff sixpenny strikers,
Most notedly, sir.
But if I give my wife a handkerchief,--
found his heir?
on's teeth.
Three parts of that receipt I had for Calais
I think 'twill serve, if he
For my prosperity!
In private will I talk with thee apart.
Yet neither conqueror nor conquered:
Do you love me?
Think you I can a resolution fetch
To bear with patience
She that, so young, could give out such a seeming,
Exeunt DESDEMONA and EMILIA
With wanton Paris sleeps; and that's the quarrel.
Thou fall'st a blessed martyr! Serve the king;
friend and I confess me knit to thy deserving with
Enter LAUNCELOT
For I'll not kill thee there, nor there, nor there;
And is that paper nothing?
Enter PAROLLES
[Reads]
I think it be: but we have no great cause to desire
It was a bare petition of a state
they do not give us the lie.
Or, if not so, until the sun be set:
Who are at hand, triumphantly display'd,
And let him cry Ha! louder!
Is free of speech, sings, plays and dances well;
The more thou damm'st it up, the more it burns.
Well, she looked yesternight fairer than ever I saw
To strut before a wanton ambling nymph;
I have perhaps some shallow spirit of judgement;
Nor I.
SCENE II. The same. A room in the palace.
Have not the power to muzzle him; therefore best
The supreme seat, the throne majestical,
this, give these fellows some means to the king:
Nor his beauty.
admit no discourse to your beauty.
Here comes the countess: now heaven walks on earth.
But the free comfort which from thence he hears,
I wis your grandam had a worser match.
To give you over at this first encounter,
Away! make haste: thou knowist where I will tarry.
vessel makes the greatest sound.' Bardolph and Nym
Now therefore let us hence; and lose no hour,
Honest goodfellows, ah, put up, put up;
Here, my lord.
Submission, Dauphin! 'tis a mere French word;
With such a graceful courtesy deliver'd?
If ever you prove false one to another, since I have
See, ho! who is that there?
wronged by you.
Do not torment me: Oh!
Farewell, kind lord; fight valiantly to-day:
Must be so too, if heed me; which to do
Thou madst thine enemies shake, as if the world
Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.
O, full of careful business are his looks!
your voices,
That dreamers often lie.
In that dim monument where Tybalt lies.
of no better report than a horse-drench. Is he
is allowed for the day-woman. Fare you well.
So, look about you: know you any here?
wasp's nest; then stand till he be three quarters
Until the duke take order for his burial:
Too dull for your good wearing?
And make a mutual closure of our house.
played the Jack with us.
Call we to mind, and mark but this for proof,
husband, come home presently.
Thou shinest in every tear that I do weep:
To RICHMOND
By how much unexpected, by so much
Marry, he told me so himself; and he said he cared
Or Ethiopian's tooth, or the fann'd
If I had thee in Lipsbury pinfold, I would make thee
Henry the Fifth did sometime prophesy,
A gentleman! what gentleman?
And forth my mimic comes. When they him spy,
And now let's go hand in hand, not one before another.
Here's goodly gear!
For I have seen more years, I'm sure, than ye.
Some twenty of them fought in this black strife,
Who having, by their own importunate suit,
And bid my cousin Ferdinand come hither:
scale of reason to poise another of sensuality, the
A thousand thousand sighs to save,
calling? Look to the guests within.
My liege, here is the strangest controversy
Take you the lute, and you the set of books;
And tread it under foot with all contempt,
Would I admit; no name of magistrate;
and kindly.
Were half to half the world by the ears and he.
Tuesday, a morris for May-day, as the nail to his
But death doth front thee with apparent spoil
As that the villain lives which slaughter'd him.
To die when I desire.
Ay, she quickly pooped him; she made him roast-meat
garden where leeks did grow, wearing leeks in their
Doth to our rose of youth rightly belong;
With all true duty. On toward Calais, ho!
My oath, and my profession: I protest,
Hast thou not kiss'd thy hand and held my stirrup?
He shall have merely justice and his bond.
Exit CATESBY
But I am sure the younger of our nature,
To love, to wealth, to pomp, I pine and die;
For even the day before, she broke her brow:
The shallowest thick-skin of that barren sort,
List to your tribunes. Audience: peace, I say!
perfectly I love her; and that is good English.
Who can control his fate? 'tis not so now.
thou the beggar; for so witnesseth thy lowliness.
If this will not suffice, it must appear
To have mistrusted her: yet, O my daughter!
That give accosting welcome ere it comes,
But that I told him, the revenging gods
Thou hast a traitor in thy presence there.
Would you not deem it breathed? and that those veins
Became the next day's master, till the last
come on? how then? Can honour set to a leg? no: or
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS and RUGBY
SCENE I. London. The palace.
Where?
say 'Welcome!'
That ever Brutus will go bound to Rome;
Pity the city of London, pity us!
Even by your own.
That it may stand till the perpetual doom,
I do desire it.
On thee I lay whose wisdom's strength can bear it.
But, O, it presses to my memory,
Give me my father!
Come in, without there!
Which is one?
I ever bore my daughter or thyself.
Before we parted. I have made bold, Iago,
As we have warrantise: her death was doubtful;
duke's wrestler; which Charles in a moment threw him
Salisbury is a desperate homicide;
Not painted with the crimson spots of blood.
I am not in the giving vein to-day.
What is most right: mine honour was not yielded,
Can tie the gall up in the slanderous tongue?
For corn at their own rates; whereof, they say,
Unto our sister Bona.
As asses are.
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
He, obedient to their dooms,
If you be king, why should not I succeed?
And have is have, however men do catch:
Ay, there, there.
Brother, I advise you to the best; go armed: I
second day of audience. When you are hearing a
Enter BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
Approach, my Ariel, come.
As by your high imperial majesty
I'll in, to urge his hatred more to Clarence,
fardel will make him scratch his beard.
Have at it then, by leave.
Should be full-fraught with serviceable vows.
Obeying with my wind when I do blow,
To have them recompensed as thought on.
sky: betwixt the firmament and it you cannot thrust
I love thee not, therefore pursue me not.
yours; and welcome to the wide fields too base to be mine.
quoth a'? Gentlemen, can any of you tell me where I
Till time had made them for us. But it chances
Thought I thy spirits were stronger than thy shames,
Phebe, with all my heart.
To these injunctions every one doth swear
And crows are fatted with the murrion flock;
I pray you, tarry: pause a day or two
Dine with my father, drink a health to me;
I will have it no lay.
Make her amends; she weeps.
Enter ANTIOCHUS, Prince PERICLES, and followers
You may not come, fair princess, in my gates;
that runs lolling up and down to hide his bauble in a hole.
Edmund, farewell.
Watching breeds leanness, leanness is all gaunt:
In giving him his right.
And left this head on. How should this be? Pisanio?
How now, Sir Proteus, are you crept before us?
I could be knighted.
Bold, quick, ingenious, forward, capable
spirit--give thee thy due--and one that knows what
More of thee merited than a band of Clotens
I said the deer was not a haud credo; twas a pricket.
I can produce a champion that will prove
Is he pardon'd; and, for your lovely sake,
I will not stay to-night for all the town;
Whilst by a slave, no gentler than my dog,
If she were by, to hear you make the offer.
I do confess the vices of my blood,
'Tis said the stout Parisians do revolt
She had just cause.
Cleopatra,
Enter the BASTARD and HUBERT, severally
That's lesser than a little.
As we this garden! We at time of year
I'll leave you, lady.
Hold, valiant Clifford! for a thousand causes
That will the king severely prosecute
Why, is it not news, to hear of Petruchio's coming?
Yet know, my master, God omnipotent,
Exeunt King Henry, Blunt, and train
Inch-thick, knee-deep, o'er head and
Your business was more welcome.
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
Will you two help to hasten them?
Re-enter LADY MACBETH
Upon the head of this forgetful man
Thy drugs are quick. Thus with a kiss I die.
By this at Daintry, with a puissant troop.
From my master, Sir Proteus, madam.
decrease it upon better acquaintance, when we are
A fair one are you--well you fit our ages
Enter ELBOW, and Officers with FROTH and POMPEY
Here is the place, my lord; good my lord, enter:
door like a sheriff's post, and be the supporter to
The Knights dance
O, why rebuke you him that loves you so?
undone! Fly, run, hue and cry, villain! I am undone!
I wish it might, for now I am your fool.
myself, these gentlemen can witness! but I would
But fierce Andronicus would not relent;
'Tis most strange,
Exeunt
For Michael Cassio,
Such as by God's book are adjudged to death.
Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee.
My birth-place hate I, and my love's upon
Is't so saucy?
Chief architect and plotter of these woes:
That has a name: but there's no bottom, none,
I think thou dost; and, indeed, with most painful
O, my sweet lord, that you will stay behind us!
'Call me not fool till heaven hath sent me fortune:'
Is lechery so look'd after?
'There dwelt a man in Babylon, lady, lady!'
My good lord--
'Our Britain s harts die flying, not our men:
For, if she be not honest, chaste, and true,
And what wit could wit have to excuse that?
Thou rascal, that art worst in blood to run,
For I can smooth and fill his aged ear
The very spirit of Plantagenet!
As all the tuned spheres, and that to friends;
That I will show you shining at this feast,
With speedy help doth lend redress.'
Hear me, you wrangling pirates, that fall out
Would all the world but he had quite forsworn!
The Emperor of Russia was my father:
What you would have reform'd that is not well,
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
And in that time
Of his bright passage to the occident.
Varro's Servant	How dost, fool?
I'll play the penitent to you: but mine honesty
every day. But, I beseech your grace, pardon me: I
Or, having sworn too hard a keeping oath,
And brought me garlands, Griffith, which I feel
As I dare take a serpent by the tongue:
Most royal sir, from thence; from him, whose daughter
Hastings, and Edward's children, Rivers, Grey,
He is a dreamer; let us leave him: pass.
Open the gates; 'tis Gloucester that calls.
The readiest way to make the wench amends
To be such men as may besort your age,
Smile in men's faces, smooth, deceive and cog,
I will speak daggers to her, but use none;
you stand on distance, your passes, stoccadoes, and
And with thy daring folly burn the world?
Hath got the voice in hell for excellence:
Why, hear you, my masters: was it for me to kill the
You shall not find,
I would they were in Tiber! What the vengeance!
[Sings]
And see our pleasure herein executed.
As fearfully as doth a galled rock
Come, I will make you way for these your letters;
Enter Old GOBBO, with a basket
You are a merry gamester,
And cannot say, you dare not. Good Camillo,
'Your love says, like an honest gentleman,
DON
Has he, masters?
As is the razor's edge invisible,
That we shall die, we know; 'tis but the time
Enter two or three Lords
with me as the very true sonnet is, 'Please one, and
To what end, my lord?
To the warm sun!
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
A long flourish till they come down
I know from whence this same device proceeds:
Under your good correction, I have seen,
Were both extermined.
the deed in the praise.
business as I shall find means and acquaint you withal.
Have I given fire and rifted Jove's stout oak
Let this be so, and doubt not but success
Yet I confess that often ere this day,
Creep in the minds and marrows of our youth,
Enter FRIAR JOHN
There is no fellow in the firmament.
I'll make the statue move indeed, descend
And grew a twenty years removed thing
And sold their bodies for their country's benefit,
When I was young, as yet I am not old,
My noble lord--
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
In this hot trial, more than we of France;
You have broken
It signs well, does it not?
From what you rightly are.
Whither?
Our firebrand brother, Paris, burns us all.
Yet indirection thereby grows direct,
I have been in such a pickle since I
But jealous souls will not be answer'd so;
Go, some of you, knock at the abbey-gate
Why, what a caterwauling dost thou keep!
He saves my labour by his own approach.
Descend.
fairly guide them! especially to you, fair queen!
Which, to be spoke, would torture thee.
Tendering the precious safety of my prince,
That you will be more mild and tractable.
Good cousins both, of York and Somerset,
Do glorify the banks that bound them in;
Lady Beatrice, I will get you one.
it anon with new contents swear.
Enter a Messenger
I prithee, Strato, stay thou by thy lord:
Which challenges itself as honour's born
I care not for that neither, because I love crusts.
Would here have kill'd your king; I do forgive thee,
Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heaven,
That's the worst tidings that I hear of yet.
He should have had a volume of farewells;
How if fair and foolish?
Every one that does so is a traitor, and must be hanged.
Were I my father, coz, would I do this?
Moist Hesperus hath quench'd his sleepy lamp,
From honourable sources.
Then, heigh-ho, the holly!
oeillades; sometimes the beam of her view gilded my
To have my love to bed and to arise;
the daintier sense.
a puppet of her.
Sleeping and waking, O, defend me still!
I'll make a fat pair of gallows; for if I hang, old
When they do homage to this simple peasant.
It is the cowish terror of his spirit,
Must shuffle for itself.
A greater gift! O, that's the sword to it.
Esteem none friends but such as are his friends,
The worse to her, the better loved of me.
Why did you laugh then, when I said 'man delights not me'?
Exeunt Ghost and HAMLET
I would not be sir Nob in any case.
Saw you my lord?
I would she were as lying a gossip in that as ever
They retire
Certain: Alcibiades reports it; Phrynia and
To my demands. Why do you pity me?
Such duty to the drunkard let him do
I needs must rest me.
It is a banquet to me. Let's after him,
Exeunt
To sell and mart your offices for gold
I have no brother, I am like no brother;
And through the instrument my pate made way;
Upon our soldiers, we will retire to Calais.
O, they love least that let men know their love.
Could I repair what she will wear in me,
for, as it is a heartbreaking to see a handsome man
Stand you directly in Antonius' way,
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!
To see no pastime I	what you would have
For such an end thou seek'st,--as base as strange.
And after, every of this happy number
Enter TIMON and Attendants
Though our lives--
The horrible conceit of death and night,
To be the princely bride of such a lord;
He hath paid you all he promised you; may be, he has
Fought on the day of Crispin Crispianus.
From mine own knowledge. As nearly as I may,
Ne'er saw her match since first the world begun.
Here is the head; I'll carry it myself.
Contempt his scornful perspective did lend me,
Enter, severally, DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as a friar, and Provost
you.
Excellent.
No, sir, I say his horse comes, with him on his back.
Be as cauterizing to the root o' the tongue,
As two yoke-devils sworn to either's purpose,
What foul play had we, that we came from thence?
Enter SCARUS
We pray with heart and soul and all beside:
I mean, Master Slender, what would you with me?
place appointed: I'll be judgement by mine host of
in his youth that he cannot endure in his age.
Ere I learn love, I'll practise to obey.
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Thy likeness, for instead of thee, King Harry,
And see him dress'd in all suits like a lady:
And thou hadst been set i' the stocks for that
lungs, bladders full of imposthume, sciaticas,
Who art so lovely fair and smell'st so sweet
Yet there he was; and there I found this credit,
In peace was never gentle lamb more mild,
And gather by him, as he is behaved,
her maidenhead ere they have it: men shall hold of
In the unshrinking station where he fought,
Bless our poor virginity from underminers and
doublet, four through the hose; my buckler cut
Before the eye and prospect of your town,
I cry you mercy, sir; and well could wish
When he comes back; you demi-puppets that
What is't you do?
What sayest thou?
And all things shall be well, I warrant thee, wife:
Good night, sir. My Octavia,
Is strict in his arrest--O, I could tell you--
Well, my legitimate, if this letter speed,
Holy, fair and wise is she;
A most unnatural and faithless service!
If life did ride upon a dial's point,
She might have been o'erta'en; and yet she writes,
Another ring, that what in time proceeds
[Aside]  He should give her interest and she gives it him.
Where I am but a stranger: from the deck
Nay, stay: thou shouldst be honest.
I prithee, daughter, do not make me mad:
when thou wilt, and thou shalt have it.
Hath lost me in your liking.
And perish ye, with your audacious prate!
Re-enter CURIO and Clown
Come to the bay of Ephesus, he dies,
Mardian, go tell him I have slain myself;
Marry,
In this bare island by your spell;
And so he vanish'd: then came wandering by
Threw dust and rubbish on King Richard's head.
Whose conscience with injustice is corrupted.
O Dionyza,
A general praise to her, and care in us
Subdue and poison this young maid's affections?
She is cunning past man's thought.
My wife descended of the Lacies,--
My rightful hand in a well-hallow'd cause.
Exit Lady
We speak no treason, man: we say the king
You will have Gremio to keep you fair.
Good word nor look: what, are my deeds forgot?
But when it first did help to wound itself.
Or if you cannot weep, yet give some groans,
Take and give back affairs and their dispatch
Dispatch the most convenient messenger:
It cannot be thus long, the sides of nature
In all these circumstances I'll instruct you:
Exeunt BIONDELLO, TRANIO, and Pedant, as fast as may be
that you are little better than false knaves; and it
Or, at the least, in hers sepulchre thine.
Can I make men live, whether they will or no?
Than three great argosies; besides two galliases,
Not a whit, Touchstone: those that are good manners
I know thee well; how dost thou, my good fellow?
To join with him and right his heinous wrongs.
That day he overcame the Nervii:
For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night
Are you there, wife? you might have come before.
pardon thereunto, recount the occasion of my sudden
And for myself, foe as he was to me,
And would not harm me.
Your guest, then, madam:
I do beseech you--
cares of it, and the forms of it, and the sobriety
Did march three Frenchmen. Yet, forgive me, God,
I fear 'tis deepest winter in Lord Timon's purse;
Harmless Richard was murder'd traitorously.
Was John of Gaunt, the Duke of Lancaster;
That nightly lie in those unproper beds
The small'st opinion on my least misuse?
Where Brutus may but find it; and throw this
It was well done; and thou shalt sleep again;
Enter, below, BRABANTIO, and Servants with torches
Provided that you do no outrages
They say he is already in the forest of Arden, and
What is your genitive case plural, William?
Exit IAGO
And twenty more such names and men as these
What, that an eel is ingenious?
Ay, madam, it is common.
And here the bracelet of the truest princess
Wherein the toged consuls can propose
Which else would put you to your fortune and
That now lies foul and muddy. Not one of them
And knows me, and knows me,
Well, I do then; yet I say I could show you to the
Ay, with these crystal beads heaven shall be bribed
I know you not.
But thou art deeper read, and better skill'd
Know'st thou not any whom corrupting gold
By sea and land; supplying every stage
To be, or not to be: that is the question:
My lord,
a finer end and went away an it had been any
But makes one pardon strong.
The one is my sovereign, whom both my oath
God's name. Go, take him away, I say, and strike
I came with Hermia hither: our intent
She takes upon her bravely at first dash.
bold-beating oaths, under the shelter of your
Will cheque him for 't: your purposed low correction
But, sirrah, you shall buy this sport as dear
Honest! ay, honest.
That all the eanlings which were streak'd and pied
For there I'll ship them all for Ireland.
As being thought to contradict your liking,
That is done, sir; they have all stomachs.
I am agreed; and would I had given him the best
He never will come again.
How show'd his tasking? seem'd it in contempt?
To an infected jelly and my name
Lychorida, her nurse, she takes,
I bade the rascal knock upon your gate
Let shame say what it will: when these are gone,
No, sir, nor I mean it not.
Hath wash'd thy sallow cheeks for Rosaline!
Come, officer; as loud as e'er thou canst,
thee, my dearest partner of greatness, that thou
Sir John and all.
one skull, they would fly east, west, north, south,
Here is the cap your worship did bespeak.
Of England's true-anointed lawful king.
Thou hast finish'd joy and moan:
SCENE III. A room in Capulet's house.
Only thus much I give your grace to know:
Fair Lady Cressid,
it did not speak before. All solemn things
What should they grant? what makes this pretty
Why, foolish boy, the king is left behind,
As all the poisonous potions in the world
Thanks, brave Montgomery; and thanks unto you all:
SCENE IV. The heath. Before a hovel.
'Faith, my lord. I spoke it but according to the
O cheerful colours! see where Oxford comes!
Die, die, Lavinia, and thy shame with thee;
A cur, sir.
And how do you?
If nothing lets to make us happy both
Exeunt
But thou shalt wear it as a herald's coat,
This is the man, this is Antonio,
God keep me from false friends! but they were none.
Put colour in thy cheek.
My lord is fall'n into an epilepsy:
And, force perforce, I'll make him yield the crown,
Will you go hear this news, signior?
Soldiers should brook as little wrongs as gods.
The sin of my ingratitude even now
good horse to hire,' let them signify under my sign
I am glad to see you well:
Thou'rt an honest man.
This is the strangest fellow, brother John.
With six Aufidiuses, or more, his tribe,
His coming hither hath no further scope
And do not play in wench-like words with that
Prithee, nuncle, be contented; 'tis a naughty night
I hope she will deserve well,--and a little
I live to look upon their tragedy.
What man dost thou dig it for?
My lord?
That we can call these delicate creatures ours,
Inflame too nicely; nor let pity, which
Exeunt
He does indeed;
And the great Hector's sword had lack'd a master,
He bears him on the place's privilege,
Well then, if ever I thank any man, I'll thank you;
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
Unless we sweep 'em from the door with cannons--
Say 'Who's a traitor? Gloucester he is none.'
Produce the grand sum of his sins, the articles
You think of him too much.
Looking on his hands
Verona's summer hath not such a flower.
What, Lucius, ho!
They wake
Be my so used a guest as not an hour,
That 'once' I see by your good father's speed
How do you, pretty lady?
I' the mire.
I would forget her; but a fever she
Do't! he will do't; for, look you, sir, he has as
The thane of Cawdor, began a dismal conflict;
Because myself do want my servants' fortune:
I am afeard the life of Helen, lady,
The Antoniad, the Egyptian admiral,
I pray you, sir, go forth,
painted blind, with a muffler afore her eyes, to
Your mere enforcement shall acquittance me
Give him much wrong'd.
And with my sword I'll keep this door safe.
Thou shalt know her, fellow, by the rest that have no heads.
To bring my whole cause 'fore his holiness,
Will yield us up.
It was the swift celerity of his death,
Exit
Lest, to thy peril, thou aby it dear.
You are abused and by some putter-on
A bawd of eleven years' continuance, may it please
Enter CORNWALL and EDMUND
Peace, Grumio! it is the rival of my love.
Have I caught thee, my heavenly jewel? Why, now let
Truly, she's very well indeed, but for two things.
And spend our flatteries, to drink those men
I will not have excuse, with saying this
Within six hours they will be at his aid.
Dead though she be, she feels her young one kick:
And give them leave to fly that will not stay;
Exeunt MARK ANTONY and CLEOPATRA with their train
And thou shalt have more
ship-tire, the tire-valiant, or any tire of
my tongue is too foolhardy; but my heart hath the
Be held by you denials. Do not bid me
His pester'd senses to recoil and start,
I' the bottom of a cowslip: here's a voucher,
Of the poor suppliant, who by this I know
I fear me, love, if that I had been dead,
Shall think themselves accursed they were not here,
Music
A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave;
As in a soul remembering my good friends;
Little pretty, because little. Wherefore apt?
They all read their letters
The cause were not in being,--part o' the cause,
'Twas bravely done, if you bethink you of it.
Enter HAMLET and GUILDENSTERN
her to-morrow in the congregation, where I should
teacher. An the indentures be drawn, I'll away
Full of strange oaths and bearded like the pard,
Had I expected thee. How now, my brother!
Enter the QUEEN, POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, and IMOGEN
Ay; and let none enter, lest I break your pate.
'Tis he: slink by, and note him.
Where is the Earl of Wiltshire? where is Bagot?
A very fatal place it seems to me.
As they were living; think you see them great,
This yellow Iachimo, in an hour,--wast not?--
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
'Tis I that made thy widows: many an heir
You see how full of changes his age is; the
Not I; 'twas Chiron and Demetrius:
My gracious lord, I tender you my service,
SCENE I. The same. LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HELENA, and HERMIA
How ill-beseeming is it in thy sex
Speak to the business, master-secretary:
His name, my lord, is Tyrrel.
I have thought upon it, it shall be so. Away, burn
And 'stablish quietness on every side.
And pardon me, my gentle Gratiano;
though I be but the prince of Wales, yet I am king
Valiant Othello, we must straight employ you
The bay-trees in our country are all wither'd
Come home to me, and I will wait for you.
As we to keep this city.
park; which, put together, is in manner and form
coming down this walk: he has been yonder i' the
How to get clear of all the debts I owe.
Found there rich jewels; recover'd her, and placed her
But Joan la Pucelle shall be France's saint.
You nymphs, call'd Naiads, of the windring brooks,
Of audience nor desire shall fail, so she
him eat it that says I love not you.
That he may never more false title plead,
That ever ear did hear to such effect:
Whither travel you?
I am gone, though I am here: there is no love in
Nay, I knew by his face that there was something in
For I come hither arm'd against myself:
league between my good man and he! Is your wife at
And you!
So great an object: can this cockpit hold
O lamentable day!
Three, they say: but 'tis thought of every one
Every true man's apparel fits your thief: if it be
Exit Second Servant
that you praised so to the queen? O, that I knew
He cried to me; I saw him prisoner;
May this be borne?--as if his traitorous sons,
Thy sister's sister.
He gave his nose and took't away again;
SCENE IV. Rome. Philario's house.
Marry, she hath received your letter, for the which
Dear sir, forbear.
Even he, madam.
In whose cold blood no spark of honour bides.
for her cradle ere she had a husband for her bed.
Invite me to a banquet; whose bright faces
We are yours i' the garden: shall's attend you there?
hath been seduced by them; and the misery is,
Hath thwarted our intents. Come, come away.
Thou takest
Canst thou believe thy living is a life,
Let Lucius and Titinius guard our door.
How now, good woman? how dost thou?
I am bound to thee for ever.
But, come what may, I do adore thee so,
O Lymoges! O Austria! thou dost shame
The sun will not be seen to-day;
You promised knighthood to our forward son:
Her royal stock graft with ignoble plants,
Exit
To haste thus fast, to find us unprovided.
she for a woman, God bless us.
My lord,--
With pestilent speeches of his father's death;
For what he did before Corioli, call him,
Under their sweet shade, Aaron, let us sit,
A great suspicion: stay the friar too.
He has the stamp of Marcius; and I have
As it makes harmful all that speak of it.
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
Even this ill night, your breathing shall expire,
And sure I am two men there are not living
must incline to the king. I will seek him, and
Alike betwitched by the charm of looks,
What is this castle call'd that stands hard by?
Then stir Demetrius up with bitter wrong;
Hold your hand, my lord:
her upon the form, and taken following her into the
Exit Haberdasher
Post blows a horn within
ANTIPHOLUS
SCENE I. London. A street.
And tell me how it works.
upon him, for my business seethes.
And so there is: but yet the king hath drawn
Will presently appear;
Why, your lieutenant, Cassio. Good my lord,
showed what necessity belonged to't, and yet was denied.
charge: you shall comprehend all vagrom men; you are
tend on no man's business, laugh when I am merry and
Were there a serpent seen, with forked tongue,
Unless our halberds did shut up his passage.
And I am sent to tell his majesty
The which no sooner had his prowess confirm'd
Why then, my horns are his horns, whether I wake or sleep.
I can no more: the king, the king's to blame.
To hear the men deny't. So that, I say,
Grows, lives and dies in single blessedness.
Fell banning hag, enchantress, hold thy tongue!
Get you to your lord;
Well said, my lord.
And let no quarrel nor no brawl to come
Steering with due course towards the isle of Rhodes,
to bed betimes. Does not our life consist of the
And call us wretches, orphans, castaways
[Aside to ISABELLA]  Art avised o' that? more on 't.
Exeunt GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS
In several hands, in at his windows throw,
Best fitteth my degree or your condition
I hope he is; but yet let mothers doubt.
Then list to me:
No less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honour;
Let it alone; my state now will but mock me.
Sear'd otherwise; nay, worse--if worse--extended
tromperies.
To thread the postern of a small needle's eye.'
God's mercy, maiden! does it curd thy blood
Exit
company. Is that the meaning of 'accost'?
Why me, Timon?
Hard-hearted Clifford, take me from the world:
Almost, sir: heaven restore me! Would I were
Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus,
As gaming, my lord.
Say, didst thou speak with him? know'st thou his mind?
Enter an Attendant
Sit down, sweet niece: brother, sit down by me.
If I be so disgracious in your sight,
Of heavenly oaths, vow'd with integrity.
Do this, and purchase us thy lasting friends.'
There is no certain princess that appears;
They will'd me say so, madam.
While you are thus employ'd, what resteth more,
That Hermia should give answer of her choice?
The action of my life is like it, which
favour is well approved by your tongue. What's the
SCENE II. LEWIS's camp at St. Edmundsbury.
His master and he, saving your worship's reverence,
For him I thank your grace.
Nay, but, Ophelia,--
Serve by indenture to the common hangman:
And stain'd the beauty of a fair queen's cheeks
Signior Benedick.
As I do love my father.
That says his bravery is not of my cost,
Are brazen images of canonized saints.
From him I have express commandment
You shall have pay and every thing you wish.
I thought you had been willing to resign.
Yea, and furr'd moss besides, when flowers are none,
And do him right that, answering one foul wrong,
Such as the day is when the sun is hid.
A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh,
Come, go with me into mine armoury;
He may enguard his dotage with their powers,
my subject and he shall not suffer indignity.
But to the rest.
I am an humble suitor to your virtues;
A joyless, dismal, black, and sorrowful issue:
Speak, citizens, for England; who's your king?
There is much care and valour in this Welshman.
And here I prophesy: this brawl to-day,
O, how hast thou with 'jealousy infected
It is perchance that you yourself were saved.
By interims and conveying gusts we have heard
And gallop o'er the field.
Up once again; put spirit in the French:
Farewell, mad wenches; you have simple wits.
SCENE VI. Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
Will you go, sister? Shepherd, ply her hard.
But you must trouble him with lewd complaints.
I'll keep mine own, despite of all the world.
Inferior to none but to his majesty:
Nor I, my lord.
If I put any tricks upon 'em, sir, they shall be
Your boldest suit of mirth, for we have friends
Exit CATESBY
her.
Tremble, like aspen-leaves, upon a lute,
received a letter this night; 'tis dangerous to be
For that I have laid by my majesty
Believe 't, I will.
never nurse her child herself, for she will breed
And I am sick at heart.
The iron tongue of midnight hath told twelve:
Her sighs will make a battery in his breast;
Or Signior Gremio, you, know any such,
To the corruption of a blemished stock:
To save my boy, to nourish and bring him up;
I will not swear these are my hands: let's see;
After the last enchantment you did here,
May I be bold to acquaint his grace you are gone about it?
His welcomes forth; asks thee the son forgiveness,
O, when mine eyes did see Olivia first,
What did you whisper in your lady's ear?
husband is this morning gone a-birding: I have
fellows' counsels and your own; and good night.
These are their brethren, whom you Goths beheld
Would fail her obligation: if, sir, perchance
And fellow'st nothing: then 'tis very credent
As to take up mine honour's pawn, then stoop:
Enter EDGAR, at the third sound, armed, with a trumpet before him
And I had that which any inferior might
He purposed to his wife's sole son--a widow
Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man;
Singing
Like a false traitor and injurious villain.
Your worship is deceived; the gown is made
To him had left it solely.
It is a basilisk unto mine eye,
Of mortal breathing: seize it, if thou darest.
Until your lordship came to see his death;
To keep your great pretences veil'd till when
Exit AEdile
Know you not, master, to some kind of men
Poor miserable wretches, to your death:
Bring me a constant woman to her husband,
This nurse, this teeming womb of royal kings,
As wit and fortune will.
Henry of Lancaster, resign thy crown.
But to his foe supposed he must complain,
With drooping fog as black as Acheron,
As you owe to your wife.
England all Olivers and Rowlands bred,
therein the heaping friendships. Of that fatal
talk is most tolerable and not to be endured.
That have the office opposite to Saint Peter,
This paper has undone me: 'tis the account
Please ye we may contrive this afternoon,
Is not this well? Come, my sweet Kate:
For certainly thou art so near the gulf,
'Tis proper I obey him, but not now.
And makes as healthful music: it is not madness
You have discharged this honestly; keep it to
Well, that's set down.
reverberates
Sister, content you in my discontent.
The king! why, who's that?
it on the drawer, when indeed there is no need.
Nothing is good, I see, without respect:
Now, Montague, sit fast; I seek for thee,
I will your serious and great business scant
Yet hold I off. Women are angels, wooing:
Whom with all praise I point at, saw him fight,
If heaven had pleased to have given me longer life
'Tis full of woe: yet I can give you inkling
war I sent him; from whence he returned, his brows
All hurt behind; backs red, and faces pale
Ask him upon his oath, if he does think
and Caesar's thrasonical brag of 'I came, saw, and
Than you much willing to be counted wise
before such villains! Masters, it is proved already
It is the emperor, madam.
[Aside to MOTH]  Once to behold, rogue.
it never be day? I will trot to-morrow a mile, and
with no eyes. Look with thine ears: see how yond
Find native graves; upon the which, I trust,
And dwell upon your grave when you are dead;
I should do so in honour: I am in this,
here comes Doctor Caius.
Enter Tailor
My gracious lord, that which I would discover
Then, Brutus, I have much mistook your passion;
With cozening hope: he is a flatterer,
No, indeed, my lord.
And you, sir! you are welcome.
To know it further. Fears and scruples shake us:
And yet I come not well.
In that there's comfort.
Was made much poorer by it: but your son,
and your sister. Angelo had never the purpose to
To mend the petty present, I will piece
That there's no hoped-for mercy with the brothers
true,--or thereabouts, set down, for I'll speak truth.
Horner, for saying that the Duke of York was rightful
This feast of battle with mine adversary.
The cognizance of her incontinency
Mark me.
being, as he is, old Jack Falstaff, banish not him
Should 'scape the true acquaintance of mine ear.
His livery, and deny his offer'd homage,
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus
Philip of France, if thou be pleased withal,
commendation.
Shall keep his native progress, but surcease:
she's a virgin?
Hath wrought this hellish mischief unawares,
I am glad I have found this napkin:
Believe me, thou talkest of an admirable conceited
No words!
While we pursued the horsemen of the north,
when you have pushed out your gates the very
I saw Bassanio and Antonio part:
Come, come, he must not.
Though so denied fair harbour in my house.
Disdain to call us lord, and Picardy
O, 'tis a verse in Horace; I know it well:
May be she doth but counterfeit.
Here's the challenge, read it: warrant there's
'Twas said they saw but one; and no discerner
I would they would forget me, like the virtues
Or get some little knife between thy teeth,
Approach, thou beacon to this under globe,
Ay, Margaret; my heart is drown'd with grief,
Looking on KENT
O monstrous world! Take note, take note, O world,
There shall he practise tilts and tournaments,
If I see any thing to-night why I should not marry
I have ground the axe myself;
Which once perform'd, let all the world say no,
That I should seem to lack humanity
With tears drawn from her eyes by your foul wrongs.
Exit BANQUO
And will, no doubt, with reasons answer you.
Shall here inhabit, and this land be call'd
'Cucullus non facit monachum:' honest in nothing
Out of the path which shall directly lead
A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears,
Without, my noble lords?
But yet, before we go, let's not forget
Yet so much is my poverty of spirit,
Acquaint her here of my son Paris' love;
Of this man to be vex'd?
What is the name?
Wanting a hand to give it action?
Withhold thy speed, dreadful occasion!
Might in the ground be closed up in rest!
Into two parties, is now conjoined in one,
I trust I shall. My women, come; you have leave.
can you tell?
Jove!
disposer is sick.
But by example--O, a sin in war,
Madam, I am here.
And in the modesty of fearful duty
To win thee, lady. But, alas the while!
No; to the spital go,
The apprehension of his present portance,
Great Agamemnon comes to meet us here.
And, from the extremest upward of thy head
Since the exile of Posthumus, most retired
My humour shall not cool: I will incense Page to
so loud and so melancholy. But notwithstanding,
All which time
Choler, my lord, if rightly taken.
Nay, he hath but a little beard.
She adds, moreover, that you should put your lord
Must not in haste abuse--if it be true,
And in the pulpit, as becomes a friend,
The people liberal, valiant, active, wealthy;
As he hath spices of them all, not all,
Hold amity? 'Tis hard; almost impossible.
He draws Mark Antony out of the way.
Thou knowest not what it is.
First made to heaven, first be to heaven perform'd,
Left his to the worthiest; so his successor
To the tender of our present.
to. Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence; he
Look, how thou diest! look, how thy eye turns pale!
Take the ear strangely.
That things ill-got had ever bad success?
I met in travel toward his warlike father!
should impart a thing to you from his majesty.
To look so poorly and to speak so fair?
dignity of the whole body.
Who has a charter to extol her blood,
Our letters, madam, show'd much more than jest.
To entertain't so merrily with a fool.
Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER, BISHOP OF  WINCHESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, SOMERSET, WARWICK,  EXETER, VERNON	BASSET, and others. To them with his Soldiers, TALBOT
You do advance your cunning more and more.
Stay, lords and gentlemen, and pluck no more,
to light; murder cannot be hid long; a man's son
Beat me!
Break out into a second course of mischief,
These sovereign thrones, are all supplied, and fill'd
And all that shall succeed: Saba was never
Further to question me of your king's departure:
And know how we proceed.
That policy may either last so long,
And gentlemen in England now a-bed
And so suppose am I; for in his grave
SCENE V. The Forest.
My tables,--meet it is I set it down,
Whom it concerns to hear this matter forth,
Enter PISANIO and IMOGEN
It is the prince of palfreys; his neigh is like the
life, for then we are sure they are true.
prince should woo Hero for himself, and having
Yet are they passing cowardly. But, I beseech you,
'Tis safer to be that which we destroy
But with a lingering dram that should not work
Aside, aside; here is more matter for a hot brain:
I will not bed her.
Lull'd in these flowers with dances and delight;
Write down, master gentleman Conrade. Masters, do
No, coz, I rather weep.
you;--and thus much for greeting. Now, my spruce
Must be companion of his nuptial bed:
very strangler of their amity: Octavia is of a
I am no great Nebuchadnezzar, sir; I have not much
In complete glory she reveal'd herself;
Our hostess keeps her state, but in best time
I do arrest you, sir: you hear the suit.
For you and I are past our dancing days:
His wife, an't like your worship.
For now sits Expectation in the air,
With full bags of spices! A passport too!
Witness the hole you made in Caesar's heart,
Therefore, stand up; and, for these good deserts,
Dive, thoughts, down to my soul: here
But in oblivion and hateful griefs.
It was my breath that blew this tempest up,
By a familiar demonstration of the working, my tough senior.
Is such as basest and contemned'st wretches
Do you call, sir?
Accost, Sir Andrew, accost.
And after many scorns, many foul taunts,
Not all together: better far, I guess,
And when he was not six and twenty strong,
Thersites' body is as good as Ajax',
Et tu, Brute! Then fall, Caesar.
Quite besides
I would not for half Troy have you seen here.
I'll never trouble you, if I may spy them.
Fond done, done fond,
I know him now. Good God, betimes remove
Now, my good sweet honey lord, ride with us
for him. Cotus!
gain by you.
There's not a piece of feather in our host--
trial: wherein if I be foiled, there is but one
'Tis passing good: I prithee let me have it.
Your sovereign greatness and authority.
Were for myself: and so, my lord, adieu.
That's enough.
O mistress, mistress, shift and save yourself!
Upon the sightless couriers of the air,
Will fashion the event in better shape
Ay, he said so, to make us fight cheerfully: but
Of all that hear me, and my near'st of kin
I depart,--that, as I slew my best lover for the
Hear me yet, good Shylock.
On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in.
Bearing their own misfortunes on the back
You to a love that your true faith doth merit:
We have been guided by thee hitherto,
Exit an Attendant
drawn, monster, in good sooth!
The child was bound to the father; sir, in fine,
Of their afflictions, and shall not myself,
That this fair action may on foot be brought.
Soft!
Good signior, you shall more command with years
Hath he so long held out with me untired,
Why,
To bring again these foolish runaways.
AEgeon art thou not? or else his ghost?
That suffer surfeit, cloyment and revolt;
Of my dear father's gift stands chief in power,
O'er-cover'd quite with dead men's rattling bones,
No, by the flame of yonder glorious heaven,
From the true seed of honour! and how much honour
Smells from the general weal: make curl'd-pate
That mightily deceives you.
That we will prosecute by good advice
An thou shouldst, thou 'ldst anger ladies.
So, thrice fair lady, stand I, even so;
'C fa ut,' that loves with all affection:
And like thy brother, to enjoy thy land,
Nestor-like aged in an age of care,
Coz, farewell.
And thou shalt tell the process of their death.
Why did you bring these daggers from the place?
What would my lord?
Exit BRUTUS
Master Slender hath married her daughter.
Till storms be past of civil enmity.
And that I would not for a cow, God save her!
An excellent colour: your chestnut was ever the only colour.
not a Jew eyes? hath not a Jew hands, organs,
Then, Pompey, nor now. What news abroad, friar?
In argument of praise, or to the worth
Thou divine Imogen, what thou endurest,
Methinks King Richard and myself should meet
That what's else rare is choked; and in that point
We offer fair; take it advisedly.
Hear me, my lord;
Give o'er the play.
Of all the wonders that I yet have heard.
And come ye now to tell me John hath made
The nature of your griefs, and whereupon
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage,
proved, wit! By the Lord, this love is as mad as
If I quench thee, thou flaming minister,
Under the conduct of bold Iachimo,
The English army, that divided was
Forgive my general and exceptless rashness,
I would not have my right Rosalind of this mind,
Let's not meet her.
Through it do well, I do not relish well
Why, what would you?
Thus give I mine, and thus take I thy heart.
Like an old tale: but it appears she lives,
Of Pericles, to rage the city turn,
What hath he said?
Bid her alight,
thou art a man!
But better service have I never done you
Exeunt
I swear, 'tis better to be lowly born,
That were a kind of bastard hope, indeed: so the
You wisest Grecians, pardon me this brag;
I thought I should have seen some Hercules,
How much in duty I am bound to both.
To mark the full-fraught man and best indued
And make bold power look pale--they threw their caps
More than to Richmond?  for the selfsame heaven
By the which marriage the line of Charles the Great
And cabby run on in obedience
I'll have my bond; I will not hear thee speak:
Thy words, I grant, are bigger, for I wear not
Fire burn and cauldron bubble.
Out, ye rogue! shall I be your ostler?
When men revolted shall upon record
lord, I will most humbly take my leave of you.
Will cost my crown, and like an empty eagle
You are a thousand times a properer man
And a good soldier to a lady: but what is he to a lord?
In arms as sound as when I woo'd, in heart
Lord, I'll stab thee.
Dost thou not laugh?
This royal hand and mine are newly knit,
and I was like to be apprehended for the witch of
Let him die for't.
Master, will you win your love with a French brawl?
Why, go to then;
There's some great matter she'ld employ me in.
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
That's a brave fellow; but he's vengeance proud, and
Here, Peter Quince.
A sibyl, that had number'd in the world
Enter Corporal NYM and Lieutenant BARDOLPH
He doth with holy abstinence subdue
be not Jack Falstaff, then am I a Jack. There is Percy:
Of woman in me: now from head to foot
This rock and these demesnes have been my world;
Slight thing of Italy,
Or chivalrous design of knightly trial:
Not seeing what is likely to ensue.
His serious considering.
Did you not tell me this fat man was dead?
By which the property of youth and maidhood
Upon some present business of the state
Thy rankest fault; all of them; and require
How now! how now!
Lent us good Siward and ten thousand men;
I cannot weep; nor answer have I none,
And put your trial in the villain's mouth
And on her wither'd dewlap pour the ale.
Then pause not; for the present time's so sick,
Doing more murders in this loathsome world,
Foretells a tempest and a blustering day.
The pride of Suffolk and the cardinal,
Thou dost then wrong me, as that slaughterer doth
fault I pray.
Nor feel him where he struck: being an ugly monster,
Amen.
Of raging waste? It cannot hold; it will not.
Exeunt
for the liquor is not earthly.
players--as it is most like, if their means are no
I warrant you sir;
When care, mistrust, and treason waits on him.
Sennet. Here they come down
Then in my tent, Cassius, enlarge your griefs,
Exit KATHARINA
Insult without all reason, where gentry, title, wisdom,
Of this most pompous marriage-feast.
What can man's wisdom
Some misadventure.
Nor when she purposes return. Beseech your highness,
Take but good note, and you shall see in him.
And thither will I straight to visit him:
Holds it true, sir, that the Duke of Cornwall was so slain?
For nature to endure.
[Aside]  And me, when he approacheth to your presence.
Giving a gentle kiss to every sedge
And God forbid, my dear and faithful lord,
Signior, you are very near my brother in his love:
Of what, son?
Two long days' journey, lords, or ere we meet.
I would most gladly know the issue of it.
Will shun no course to keep them from the light.
But, by the forge that stithied Mars his helm,
SCENE II. A street.
My soul the faithfull'st offerings hath breathed out
To reel the streets at noon, and stand the buffet
What sin you do to save a brother's life,
If but as well I other accents borrow,
Will guard your person while you take your rest,
I shall; and bring his answer presently.
O heavens! you love me not.
For where is any author in the world
And I am witness with her that she did.
Very well.
He gave me a jewel th' other day, and now he has
Thy Caesar knighted me; my youth I spent
Frenchmen, I'll be a Salisbury to you:
He owes nine thousand; besides my former sum,
Exeunt
My fan, Peter.
Disdain to root the summer-swelling flower
Both too; and women's sons.
But what compact mean you to have with us?
And by that loss your daughter is made queen.
A fellow of no mark nor likelihood.
Things growing are not ripe until their season
motion of the Prodigal Son, and married a tinker's
husband? I love him well; he is an honest man.
No.
Till that, I'll view the manners of the town,
And he that is approved in this offence,
For thou art framed of the firm truth of valour.
Once more let me behold it: is it that
And call it excellent: thou wast told thus;
That's as York thrives to beat back Bolingbroke.
Where your brave father breathed his latest gasp,
To rouse his wrongs and chase them to the bay.
Here therefore for a while I will remain.
Whom from the flow of gall I name not but
Reads
If my heart's dear love--
Therefore we will disperse ourselves: farewell.
they have been up these two days.
TIMON comes from his cave
you to take leave of her, she is very willing to bid
no more words.
Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm?
against whom I know most faults.
To do that thing that ends all other deeds;
Enter Fiends
In Pericles, his queen and daughter, seen,
example of others. God keep your worship! I wish
you seem to say so.
And yours, the noble sinews of our power,
SCENE I. Rome. A public place.
That do afflict each other!
Pluck a red rose from off this thorn with me.
This is the flower that smiles on every one,
And thou shalt see how apt it is to learn
Before-time seen him thus.
Enter a Goth
Have with our needles created both one flower,
And happily we might be interrupted.
tyrannically clapped for't: these are now the
prithee, how many boys and wenches must I have?
Where's my brother?
Thy asses are gone about 'em. The reason why the
the truth?
Of noble Buckingham, my father-in-law:
One heaved a-high, to be hurl'd down below;
I can as well be hanged as tell the manner of it:
He took my father grossly, full of bread;
Good master Parson, be so good as read me this
My bounties upon you.
And strays about to find 'em.
Why, then, let's on our way in silent sort:
Now will I charge you in the band of truth,
And thus it may be. Come, sir, will you aboard?
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
And then comes answer like an Absey book:
mutualities so marshal the way, hard at hand comes
ANTIPHOLUS
You are as well provided of both as any prince in the world.
Their music frightful as the serpent's hiss,
because I have railed so long against marriage: but
Hark! now I hear them,--Ding-dong, bell.
humour-letter: I will keep the havior of reputation.
To my daughters; and tell them both,
lack no barns.
beggar, they will lazy out ten to see a dead
Like to a bubbling fountain stirr'd with wind,
Call'd Katharina, fair and virtuous?
If this thou do deny, let our hands part,
Before the game is afoot, thou still let'st slip.
I do remain as neuter. So, fare you well;
With them, upon her knees, her humble self;
As much good stay with thee as go with me!
In any thing that I do know by her.
Shall, for thy love, kill a far truer love;
And told him of those triumphs held at Oxford.
And so, good morrow, servant.
They have bereft; and do pronounce by me:
No, but not yet: may be he is not well:
Of thy unnatural uncle, English John:
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
That her wide walls encompass'd but one man?
Say I am merry: come to me again,
If you have any music that may not be heard, to't
Are excellent in making ladies trip;
How to live better. For your stubborn answer
Well, what was yours?
that, 'twas a pricket that the princess killed.
shall have no strength to repent. An I have not
Partake to every one. I, an old turtle,
With a proud heart he wore his humble weeds.
Will clear or end the business: when the oracle,
And make us lose the good we oft might win
her passion ends the play.
Nay, I have ta'en you napping, gentle love,
Bid Nestor bring me spices, ink and paper,
A royal train, believe me. These I know:
I was a chaste wife to my grave: embalm me,
Or in my cell there would she kill herself.
My Lord of York, I promise you, the king
They have not been commanded, mighty sovereign:
Our simple supper ended, give me leave
motion, that it is inevitable; and on the answer, he
I think she means to tangle my eyes too!
But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my
In that vast tennis-court, have made the ball
The sweet war-man is dead and rotten; sweet chucks,
He came with flowers to strew his lady's grave;
To be her mistress' mistress! the queen's queen!
Enter ORLANDO, with his sword drawn
But with the aid of use.
As true as truest horse that yet would never tire,
And, ere my knee rise from the earth's cold face,
and too much too.
Lonely, apart. But here it is: prepare
To please the palate of my appetite,
And use of service, none; contract, succession,
out, when Lady the brach may stand by the fire and stink.
The king hath cause to plain.
And better 'twere you troubled him than France.
[Aside]  No question of that; for I have seen him
thing, that of the skin of an innocent lamb should
will better the instruction.
BRUTUS and LUCILIUS converse apart
Was this fair paper, this most goodly book,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
Of all professors else, make proselytes
And I am constant. Titus Lartius, thou
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know,
How fares your majesty?
Exeunt
His face was as the heavens; and therein stuck
'Item: She can sew.'
Still-waking sleep, that is not what it is!
Give me the light: upon thy life, I charge thee,
RICHARD
With painted imagery had said at once
I am good friends with my father and may do any thing.
Enter Thisbe
To be corrupt and treasonous.
Who threats, in course of this revenge, to do
So were there a patch set on learning, to see him in a school:
His valour shown upon our crests to-day
Art thou a feodary for this act, and look'st
What doth befall you here. So, fare you well;
Even now about it! I will pardon you.
I loved you ever: but it is no matter;
All points of my command.
Shall I be married then to-morrow morning?
At many leisures I proposed.
flannel; ignorance itself is a plummet o'er me: use
An army cannot rule 'em.
If he be not in love with some woman, there is no
And when I urged the ransom once again
Horrible sight! Now, I see, 'tis true;
Art thou here yet?
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
In his tongue.
Another thing to fall. I not deny,
What folly 'tis to hazard life for ill!
So you must take your husbands. Begin, murderer;
Ay, but not enough.
Whereof I know she is not ignorant:
Meet thee at Milford-Haven!--I forgot to ask him one
Thou shalt be logger-head. Good faith, 'tis day:
I were the fairest goddess on the ground:
Besides this present instance of his rage,
As market-men for oxen, sheep, or horse.
Chastisement!
Most probable
A king's son! If I do not beat thee out of thy
The oil, the balsamum and aqua-vitae.
And yet a thousand times it answers 'no.'
Such to-be-pitied and o'er-wrested seeming
The different plague of each calamity.
Thy mother's of my generation: what's she, if I be a dog?
No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest; no offence
Nay, it is ten times strange.
ANTIPHOLUS
She is importunate, indeed distract:
true lovers run into strange capers; but as all is
You tender to her; that you in all obey her,
Thou mayst tell that knowest.
Look, who comes here! a grave unto a soul;
Let it come down.
And, being intercepted in your sport,
My Lord of Westminster, be it your charge
BISHOP
Diomed,--
pausing
Against yourself.
Therefore thy earliness doth me assure
Of her confine: you should be ruled and led
And Duke of Buckingham; now, poor Edward Bohun:
Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong,
That he will give them make I as little question
JULIET appears above at a window
Ambition cannot pierce a wink beyond,
What is it, but to make thy sepulchre
Hath he not twit our sovereign lady here
--and he is a knave besides; a cowardly knave as you
Insisting on the old prerogative
So stain our judgment, or corrupt our hope,
The king hath many marching in his coats.
Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
'Tis his aspect of terror. All's not well.
Go then; and with a countenance as clear
Yea, or the drone of a Lincolnshire bagpipe.
him; he hath a heart as sound as a bell and his
cloak-bag of guts, that roasted Manningtree ox with
Cold wisdom waiting on superfluous folly.
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Enter SOMERSET, with his army; a Captain of TALBOT's with him
this world goes.
And not a man, for being simply man,
[Reads]  'To the unknown beloved, this, and my good
The covering sky is nothing; Bohemia nothing;
The epitaph is for Marina writ
My kind Antonio,
must we all march?
Alas, you know not: I must tell you then:
And he whose pious breath seeks to convert you,
Came to my tent, and cried on victory:
You would be another Penelope: yet, they say, all
Touching the weal o' the common, you shall find
All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes,
Of Phoebus' burning kisses: such a pother
Exeunt
This was a great argument of love in her toward you.
How say you now? is not your husband mad?
I like this well; he will return again.
grace's tharborough: but I would see his own person
For two and twenty sons I never wept,
Had nature lent thee but thy mother's look,
Of base insinuating flattery
He's coming; I perceive 't.
to me: my remembrance is very free and clear from
Your greeting is from him, not from the king.
My mortified spirit. Now bid me run,
Till they had stol'n our jewel. All's but naught;
Speak, speak. Quite dumb?
And if it stand, as you yourself still do,
I better brook the loss of brittle life
old man: but I came from her, Master Brook, like a
yourself; for what is yours to bestow is not yours
Limit each leader to his several charge,
With an untitled tyrant bloody-scepter'd,
fool for fancy, as you would have it appear he is.
Wouldst thou have thyself fall in the confusion of
I know thee well; thou hast obtain'd thy suit:
And had I not been cited so by them,
Why did he so?
And spoil your nobler soul: I say, take heed;
Why, then my cousin Margaret and Ursula
No, my good lord.
He shall not breathe infection in this air
neighbour Verges: well, God's a good man; an two men
company, Chitopher, Vaumond, Bentii, two hundred and
Our talk must only be of Benedick.
And feast upon her eyes? What is't I dream on?
price they will.
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The widow likes him not, she
You all do know this mantle: I remember
This day I'll wear aloft my burgonet,
That Lucentio indeed had Baptista's youngest daughter.
I'll swear I am a maid, and he knows not.
Punish my life for tainting of my love!
The meat was well, if you were so contented.
O, true-bred!
Is there division 'twixt my lord and Cassio?
Caesar, I go.
Enter CARDINAL PANDULPH
Prepare, I say. I thank you, gracious lords,
Ay, I said so, sir:
Madam, with much ado:
And then we will deliver you the cause,
Exit
Suffer thy brother Marcus to inter
Or breed itself so out of circumstance,
But should he wrong my liberties in my absence?
To bid the father wipe his eyes withal,
I slew him not; but to my own disgrace
indeed, for I love thee against my will.
free entertainment.
Be the jacks fair within, the jills fair without,
With this, my weapon drawn, I rush'd upon him,
I shall beseech him to befriend himself.
She hath pursued conclusions infinite
The lazy yawning drone. I this infer,
To choose for wealth and not for perfect love.
Yet hasty marriage seldom proveth well.
For you, most wicked sir, whom to call brother
O, yes, it doth; a thousand-fold it doth.
And with them scourge the bad revolting stars
Welcome, gentlemen! I have seen the day
That will I make before I let thee go.
You did.
You break not sanctuary in seizing him.
Of his great name and estimation,
And, in advantage lingering, looks for rescue,
Enter DUKE OF YORK
Your younger princely son; he, sir, was lapp'd
Let it not be sweet.
And sing it like poor Barbara. Prithee, dispatch.
By the mass, so did we all. I thank you, Richard:
Ay, marry, sir, now looks he like a king!
And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
If you refuse it,--as, in love and zeal,
As truth's authentic author to be cited,
I'll show you here at large. Hark, good mine host.
Were busied with a Whitsun morris-dance:
If they hold when their ladies bid 'em clap.
With eye-offending brine: all this to season
stagger in this attempt; for here we have no temple
How Caesar hath deserved to lie in death,
Foul is most foul, being foul to be a scoffer.
ACT IV
Which you deny already: yet we will ask;
his chin: indeed, she has a marvellous white hand, I
Touching the Turkish loss, yet he looks sadly,
Of Essex, Norfolk, Suffolk, nor of Kent,
Come, I'll to my chamber. Would there had been some
They answer, in a joint and corporate voice,
To come to me forthwith.
Some remedies for life.
To let thy tongue detect thy base-born heart?
welkin, I might say 'element,' but the word is over-worn.
If there be ten, shrink not, but down with 'em.
My fair Rosalind, I come within an hour of my promise.
Strain'd purely from all hollow bias-drawing,
I should have found in some place of my soul
As wedged with a sigh, would rive in twain,
Come, grin on me, and I will think thou smilest
In such a presence here to plead my thoughts;
To come at traitors' calls and do them grace.
And she, there dead, that Romeo's faithful wife:
Men well inclined to hear what thou command'st:
Before his sister should her body stoop
great, or the mighty, or the huge, or the
Exit
Unto the state of Venice.
Exeunt
She hath been a suitor to me for her brother
Look, here comes one: a gentlewoman of mine,
For by my scouts I was advertised
Wherewith already France is overrun.
Thou'rt damn'd as black--nay, nothing is so black;
Winds his horn. Drums strike up: a peal of ordnance. Enter soldiers
thy lower part where thy nose stands. By mine
before would not abide looking on.
From those that she calls servants or from mine?
Ad manes fratrum sacrifice his flesh,
Full of decay and failing? O monument
Good wombs have borne bad sons.
Confesses that she secretly o'erheard
Our services awhile; but my full heart
An hour by his dial. O noble fool!
And, for he understands you are in arms,
Your brain, and every function of your power,
Must I, then, leave you? must I needs forego
Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and MISTRESS QUICKLY
For now the wind begins to blow;
Permitted by our dastard nobles, who
Fair ladies, you drop manna in the way
Being a bark to brook no mighty sea,
Let grief and sorrow still embrace his heart
Yet Edward at the least is Duke of York.
The lamb entreats the butcher: where's thy knife?
A gait, a state, a brow, a breast, a waist,
what you are, being a man. Truly, the lady fathers
have loved the Moor. Blessed pudding! Didst thou
Enter a company of mutinous Citizens, with staves, clubs, and other weapons
and being so hard to me that brought your mind, I
For God's sake let him have 'em; to keep them here,
There's livers out of Britain.
That from the seedness the bare fallow brings
I love you with so much of my heart that none is
I mean for your particular,--you had not
o'erhanging firmament, this majestical roof fretted
To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes:
was born to do me good: for many a time, but for a
His looks are full of peaceful majesty,
Would I were able to load him with his desert! Will
Than is his father's, must embrace the fate
Enter GHOST and HAMLET
But for because he hath not woo'd me yet:
out of honesty into English.
Is she not then beholding to the man
Dat is as it sall please de roi mon pere.
And make a common of my serious hours.
Did to his predecessors part withal.
Apt, in good faith; very apt. Well, go thy way; if
And for a further grief,--God give you joy!--
When you then were here,
I pray you, is Signior Mountanto returned from the
[Aside to POMPEY]  Forsake thy seat, I do beseech
All their petitions are as freely theirs
It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven
than I can: you may ask your father; here he comes.
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill;
Enter LEONATO, with DOGBERRY and VERGES
rehearse, though credit be asleep and not an ear
Because she will not be annoy'd with suitors.
That, being a stranger in this city here,
Exit
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
Guienne, Champagne, Rheims, Orleans,
What man was he talk'd with you yesternight
By this so sickened their estates, that never
Then live, Macduff: what need I fear of thee?
Got 'tween asleep and wake? Well, then,
In other arms than hers,--to him this challenge.
The loss of such a lord includes all harm.
CAESAR goes up to the Senate-House, the rest following
Do you note
Has spoken like a traitor, and shall answer
That he did pace them first? All things that are,
for a week escape a great deal of discoveries; but
Empale him with your weapons round about;
if you be he, sir, I desire some confidence with
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
Yet for this once, yea, superstitiously,
And, to speak truth, thou deservest no less. This
To have their balmy slumbers waked with strife.
There are a sort of men whose visages
The stale of horses, and the gilded puddle
thrusts me himself into the company of three or four
But, pray, how pass'd it?
In your retirement, I had swinged him soundly.
As doth a lion in a herd of neat;
Benedick: nobody marks you.
That they pass by me as the idle wind,
I'll smoke your skin-coat, an I catch you right;
How he her chamber-window will ascend
I know, is such a wrest in their affairs
Nips youth i' the head and follies doth emmew
Enter Second Merchant, ANGELO, and an Officer
The cover of the wings of grasshoppers,
better acquainted.
Here shall he see
Which hath an operation more divine
Enter SUFFOLK and QUEEN MARGARET
Mine eyes are full of tears, I cannot see:
Say, lord chamberlain,
Mine honour is my life; both grow in one:
Nor leave not one behind that doth not wish
the gods had made thee poetical.
Becomes your enemy, for mocking him
Than is your majesty: there's not, I think, a subject
SCENE I. Venice. A street.
Nor heady-rash, provoked with raging ire,
Re-enter PANDARUS
question, thou hadst well deserved it.
that he is, saving your reverence, a whoremaster,
Against whose fury and unmatched force
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
The new-heal'd wound of malice should break out,
The purity and whiteness of my sheets,
maiden walls that war hath never entered.
Who is't that goes with me? Beseech your highness,
You'll mar the light by taking it in snuff;
Sackerson loose twenty times, and have taken him by
Aside, aside; here comes Lord Timon.
This sickly land might solace as before.
Come, Dromio, come, these jests are out of season;
By his dear absence. Let me go with him.
Sir, the gods
well proved again o' my side! I will not love: if
He would depart, I'll give some light unto you.
Thou wilt be taken. Stay awhile! Stand up;
Seems he a dove? his feathers are but borrowed,
The worst fault you have is to be in love.
I hope your own grace will keep you where you are,
O, now be gone; more light and light it grows.
My troublous dream this night doth make me sad.
O ye gods, ye gods! must I endure all this?
You had my prayers to lead them on; and to keep them
Or when you waked, so waked as if you slept.
All the expected good we're like to hear
I do, sir.
Near to the town of Leicester, as we learn
Sirrah, or you must fight, or else be hang'd.
Fear not: the forest is not three leagues off;
He, he; I can never hit on's name. There is such a
No word to save thee.
the camomile, the more it is trodden on the faster
Enter DUKE OF YORK attended
For dainties are all Kates, and therefore, Kate,
In murders and in outrage, boldly here;
Quare chirrah, not sirrah?
By wailful sonnets, whose composed rhymes
Enter BIANCA
And leave him all; life, living, all is Death's.
I do assure ye, very good friend: for what is
Which wrought to his desire.
When one so great begins to rage, he's hunted
I have yielded:
Albany than Cornwall.
[Behind]  What, ho! help, help, help!
With man's blood paint the ground, gules, gules:
Worthy the pressing--lies a mole, right proud
Why, it cannot choose but be a noble plot;
If any born at Ephesus be seen
And know themselves and you.
Would I could answer
Beatrice,--
SCENE II. A camp near Forres.
That fallen am I in dark uneven way,
Enter three or four Petitioners, PETER, the Armourer's man, being one
What, dost thou turn away and hide thy face?
And, whilst I at a banquet hold him sure,
To grace us with your royal company.
Good captain, let me be the interpreter.
And you an officer fit for the place.
homely foolery already. I know, sir, we weary you.
Where is that slave, thy brother? where is he,
about your neck, like an usurer's chain? or under
Enter the Earls of SOMERSET, SUFFOLK, and WARWICK; RICHARD PLANTAGENET, VERNON, and another Lawyer
We have been up and down to seek thee; for we are
And wound our tattering colours clearly up,
He well may be a stranger, for he comes
And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments
To this detested groom.
Why should you want? Behold, the earth hath roots;
mine, twice or thrice in that last article.
Very necessity of this thought, that I,
you, O the dearest of creatures, would even renew me
Lord Mortimer of Scotland hath sent word
Is now leased out, I die pronouncing it,
Enter STEPHANO, singing: a bottle in his hand
When I have feasted with Queen Margaret?
Does change my disposition.
Take heed, lest by your heat you burn yourselves.
sighed but they asked one another the reason, no
And even these three days have I watch'd,
Of England's coat one half is cut away.
Katharina, that cap of yours becomes you not:
the dark night, which did deceive them, but chiefly
To Cymbeline perform'd:
Be pilot to me and thy places shall
Fie, Publius, fie! thou art too much deceived;
made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.
As we shall make our griefs and clamour roar
Against my kindred, brothers, and myself,
In love and service to you evermore.
And I as rich in having such a jewel
To shut me out! Pour on; I will endure.
Why should he die, sir?
This is the air-drawn dagger which, you said,
Charles Delabreth, high constable of France;
Sir, I am made
How now! what's the news with you?
I will be jovial: come, come; I am a king,
Beats him
yet: suffer us to famish, and their store-houses
owl and the cuckoo? It should have followed in the
But let him from my thoughts. What think you, coz,
I'll make my heaven to dream upon the crown,
And give more strength to that which hath too much,
Spread o'er the silver waves thy golden hairs,
You do mistake me, sir.
Than your good words. But who comes here?
Call forth my household servants: let's to-night
Signifying nothing.
Were I but now the lord of such hot youth
I swear.
And none serve with him but constrained things
To talk with him and to behold his visage,
Alas the day, I know not! There is no woman's gown
Was, for that--young King Richard thus removed,
chaste, constant-qualified and less attemptable
That Rhodes is dress'd in: if we make thought of this,
I have had my labour for my travail; ill-thought on of
strangest mind i' the world; I delight in masques
Than to make up a free determination
I have a good eye, uncle; I can see a church by daylight.
Ay, madam.
Let me see your eyes;
o' the town commended him for a true man.
Out at the postern by the abbey-wall:
As I have said you did.
speak with her; nor your name is not Master Cesario;
Besides, the sore terms we stand upon with the gods
Retreat sounded
I crave our composition may be written,
Without the show of both; fat Falstaff
But in your daughter's womb I bury them:
Which we have done, whose answer would be death
I do desire thee, even from a heart
Well; what has he done?
Those scraps are good deeds past; which are devour'd
With that which he hath drunk to-night already,
Well, well, sir, well.
What is that wrong whereof you both complain?
sounder all the next day.
But fetter you till death.
The stamp of nobleness in any person
Your lady's love against some other maid
Our sovereign process; which imports at full,
Baited like eagles having lately bathed;
therefore consider of his ransom; which must
I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat;
More holy and profound, than mine own life,
the daughter of Gerard de Narbon?
Proud with his form, in his eye pride express'd:
Welcome hither:
I thought as much; he would be above the clouds.
Exit DIONYZA
But many a many foot of land the worse.
To cut the forfeiture from that bankrupt there.
recantation.
the--No; I know it begins with some other
I am no breeching scholar in the schools;
And would so, had it been a carbuncle
Have bared my bosom to the thunder-stone;
ANTIPHOLUS
because I do. Look, here comes the duke.
But while I say one prayer!
Enter WILLIAM
A certainty, vouch'd from our cousin Austria,
My lord, you nod; you do not mind the play.
To whom he sends, and what's his embassy:
The horn and noise o' the monster's, wants not spirit
Shall seem a dream and fruitless vision,
Against the old kind king; or something deeper,
Tell me, good Brutus, can you see your face?
Marry, whip thee, gosling: I think I shall have
this letter: the army of France is landed. Seek
Thank me, sir, for what?
How quickly should you speed!
To send such peevish tokens to a king.
And not have spoke on't! In me 'tis villany;
And would not take their part? Sinful Macduff,
Whose bowels suddenly burst out: the king
In this time of the night! Bring him away:
That mend upon the world.
Till tongues fetch breath that may proclaim them louder;
Are there no other tokens
I have too few to take my leave of you,
While I remain above the ground, you shall
Singing
ACT V
Good Brabantio,
Been all the worth of's car. Away to Britain
Hold him in safety, till the prince come hither.
Though inclination be as sharp as will:
When you have spoken it, 'tis dead, and I am the
and make a stock-fish of thee.
And hath abatements and delays as many
It is, my lord.
Judgment.
Alas, who knows?
Both meet to hear and answer such high things.
Out!
By my troth, 's but a night-gown in respect of
to have had so much blood in him.
A little witness my obedience: look!
Lords, give us leave: I'll try this widow's wit.
Fulfil your pleasure. Live a thousand years,
Enter COUNTESS and Steward
With strange invention: but of that to-morrow,
get you a pair of horns.
The world shall not be ransom for thy life.
Takes it in might, not merit.
Like a fine bragging youth, and tell quaint lies,
lead this life long, I'll sew nether stocks and mend
When it did taste the wormwood on the nipple
such colours.
'Twas I won the wager, though you hit the white;
Good day at once.
Enter AGRIPPA at one door, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS at another
With his next vantage.
Being that I flow in grief,
Your very worshipful and loving friends,
Now, Dian, from thy altar do I fly,
E'en that you have there.
Foul devil, for God's sake, hence, and trouble us not;
Not to seem senseless of the bob: if not,
I could weep, madam, would it do you good.
And yet not fall; so light is vanity.
Nay, let's follow him.
Nay, that I mean to do. Is not this a lamentable
But heavenly Rosalind!
Enter a Guardsman
yet, for aught I see, they are as sick that surfeit
And never could maintain his part but in the force
If you would walk in absence of the sun.
Tranio, let's go: one thing more rests, that
never drunk wine afore will go near to remove his
But like a man he died.
And his enforcement of the city wives;
Tunis was never graced before with such a paragon to
I do not like your faults.
Yes.
Sir,
Be his own carver and cut out his way,
With thy confederates in this weighty cause.
The thing which is flatter'd, but a spark,
These promises are fair, the parties sure,
Yet but three? Come one more;
I do detest false perjured Proteus.
Go fetch them hither to us presently.
Affected greatness got by you, not you:
Out, dunghill!
For every graff would send a caterpillar,
Then show it me.
The noble gentleman gave up the ghost.
Of soft petitions, pity and remorse,
That fame may cry you loud: I say, farewell.
Fair Diomed, you do as chapmen do,
have change, she must: therefore put money in thy
Come, soldiers, show what cruelty ye can,
Light, gentlemen; I'll bind it with my shirt.
And slew your fathers, and with colours spread
Shows us but this: I am sworn brother, sweet,
SCENE VI. A field of battle.
Why, how now, Ganymede! sweet Ganymede!
Good morrow to your majesty and to my gracious mother.
I come to have thee thrust me out of doors.
How sharp the point of this remembrance is!--
Well, do it, and be brief; I will walk by:
In great measure.
A fiend like thee might bear my soul to hell.
Break we our watch up; and by my advice,
O, break, my heart! poor bankrupt, break at once!
By break of day, if the wind cease.
And yet a place of high respect with me,--
Yea, if he said my ring was copper.
Exit Shylock
The imminent death of twenty thousand men,
Perhaps you have learned it without book: but, I
His ransom there is none but I shall pay:
To trust the mockery of unquiet slumbers
Drum heard
forward already? What a pagan rascal is this! an
O good old man, how well in thee appears
Having some business, do entreat her eyes
My captain, and my emperor, let me say,
To have't with saying 'Good morrow.'
She is so hot because the meat is cold;
To make die with a restorative.
Why dost thou run so many mile about,
If in the world he live, we'll seek him out;
Your friar is now your prince: as I was then
Ay, I know who 'tis; he hath no interest in me in
Nothing in love: now does he feel his title
I kindle the boy thither; which now I'll go about.
Even so, or with much more contempt, men's eyes
You mainly were stirr'd up.
To REGAN and GONERIL
Well, follow me, my masters, you shall have your
You do seem to know
'Tis thought, my lord, that you took bribes of France,
A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,
Good fortune then!
France is revolted from the English quite,
too, and suffer every knave to use me at his pleasure?
A caudle, ho!
To draw their swords: but how the fear of us
niece. O brave Hector! Look how he looks! there's
Bonos dies, Sir Toby: for, as the old hermit of
To meet anon, upon your approbation.
Or die a soldier, as I lived a king.
That I should open to the listening air
say what dream it was: man is but an ass, if he go
His servant live, and will his vassal die:
Mark, Marcus, mark! I understand her signs:
that I may proceed in my speech.
Yea, and to tickle our noses with spear-grass to
Under the colour of his usual game,
Matchless Navarre; the plea of no less weight
Why, thy verse swells with stuff so fine and smooth
Some aqua vitae, ho! My lord! my lady!
Being unprevented, to your timeless grave.
SCENE III. A bedchamber.
looked for at your hand, and this was balked: the
Knock you here, sir! why, sir, what am I, sir, that
Your swords are now too massy for your strengths
Who by the hand of France this day hath made
Come, away!
Hath not been used to fear. Even now I tremble
Let us come in, that we may bind him fast
I dare assure thee that no enemy
Yea, for obtaining of suits, whereof the hangman
The right and fortune of his happy stars;
I will not sing.
Rescued the Black Prince, that young Mars of men,
But kill'd itself much sooner.
Exeunt MOTH and COSTARD
With Ariadne and Antiopa?
an emperor's side and command him tasks.
thief thinks it little enough: so every true man's
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Or, if you borrow one another's love for the
If I were Brutus now and he were Cassius,
I do not cross you; but I will do so.
To be received plain, I'll speak more gross:
If it be ne'er so false, a true gentleman may swear
Now it is supper-time in Orleans:
[Aside]             What should this mean?
Enter COSTARD
If not, the end of life cancels all bands;
For princes to come view fair Portia:
If the English had any apprehension, they would run away.
Than thou and John in manners; being as like
horse-stealer, but for his verity in love, I do
To feed my humour, wish thyself no harm.
skill in grass.
them, in a slough of mire; and set spurs and away,
That had a court no bigger than this cave,
They froze me into silence.
By some illusion see thou bring her here:
You may do it extempore, for it is nothing but roaring.
Or, at the least, make them his enemies.
Has crept too near another lady.
Flutter'd your Volscians in Corioli:
Make your full reference freely to my lord,
Exeunt
Had tongue at will and yet was never loud,
May prove effects. Back, Edmund, to my brother;
Did you too much disquiet: for that you must
I think your lordship is not ignorant
Dispersed those vapours that offended us;
Bid me farewell, and smile. I pray you, come.
I had my father's signet in my purse,
A braving war.
That palter with us in a double sense;
RICHARD
Pray, chuck, come hither.
is very well; what he has spoke to me, that is well,
Can tickle where she wounds! My dearest husband,
Isidore's Servant	         Your steward puts me off, my lord;
If you oppose yourselves to match Lord Warwick.
Till Henry, surfeiting in joys of love,
O, then be bold to say Bassanio's dead!
No, indeed, master.
By any indirection: I did send
servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I
When that is known and golden time convents,
wear strange suits, disable all the benefits of your
And didst contract and purse thy brow together,
To give away thy land,
May all the building in my fancy pluck
When it hath blown his ranks into the air,
Chattels, and whatsoever, and to be
How calm and gentle I proceeded still
Most rare Pompey!
Wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely,
Thou hast robb'd me of this deed: I would revenges,
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
He shall not.
For men to see, and seeing wonder at.
Thou mayst not wander in that labyrinth;
Finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks,
There is a prohibition so divine
Ay, Greek; and that shall be divulged well
You'll give yourself to this most faithful shepherd?
He is.
And where thou art not, desolation.
Let's before as he bids us: he was provided to do us good.
Enter HELENA, and two Gentlemen
And know the office that belongs to such.
therefore deny it not.
But Brutus says he was ambitious;
This deed unshapes me quite, makes me unpregnant
And once again proclaim us King of England.
Is there no other way of mercy,
It should seem, fellow, that thou hast not seen the
Fights dragon-like, and does achieve as soon
goes to them by his note: there is no hiding you in the house.
'And wished to see thee cross-gartered.'
I hold him but a fool that will endanger
An hour of revels with 'em.
Thine eyes, sweet lady, have infected mine.
How now, how now!
Not able to endure the sight of day,
Dissentious numbers pestering streets than see
Marry, sir, they have committed false report;
They place before his hand that made the engine,
Fainting, despair; despairing, yield thy breath!
The son and heir to that same Faulconbridge.
Why, this was moulded on a porringer;
Thou hast thy mistress still, to boot, my son,
I have stood by, my lord, and I have heard
have beaten thee, but in that thou art like to be my
They are opposed already.
But little, Charles;
But he that temper'd thee bade thee stand up,
to-morrow, or I am deceived by him that in such
But is my husband coming?
You should for that have reprehended him.
Is in opinion and in honour wrong'd;
'Tis in my cloak-bag--doublet, hat, hose, all
I have almost forgot the taste of fears;
Speak, or thy silence on the instant is
Is added to her wounds: I think withal
pickle-herring! How now, sot!
Ay, marry, is't.
SCENE I. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
A curse begin at very root on's heart,
That scolds against the quality of flesh,
My lord, you do discomfort all the host!
The French king's sister: he shall marry her.
What ring was yours, I pray you?
Out on thee, rude man! thou dost shame thy mother
O, they were all in lamentable cases!
Such an exploit have I in hand, Ligarius,
Tell me her father's name and 'tis enough;
Nor hear I from my mistress who did promise
Ghost
Your wisdom may inform you.
away with the rest.
No squire in debt, nor no poor knight;
A child shall get a sire, if I fail not of my cunning.
Stay, and breathe awhile:
And therefore let me be thus bold with you
Let's then determine
To make distinction: provide this messenger:
Aufidius got off.
To lay upon the damn'd, which Sycorax
Knocking within
Madam, within; but never man so changed.
That you yet know not of: we'll see our husbands
four-inched bridges, to course his own shadow for a
would think his mother's milk were scarce out of him.
Why, this is the ring I gave to Julia.
Signior Gremio, came you from the church?
Exeunt
Exeunt
The Fourth Knight passes over
Under the wings of our protector's grace,
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
And will have no attorney but myself;
Will do as if for surety. He holds me well;
This way to death my wretched sons are gone;
and down late; but notwithstanding,--to tell you in
Madam, my mother, I do cry you mercy;
By south and east is to my part assign'd:
Gentlemen both, you will mistake each other.
And twice to-day pick'd out the dullest scent:
Live, and love thy misery.
And unrespective boys: none are for me
Like madness is the glory of this life.
lenten entertainment the players shall receive from
As he cried 'Thus let be': to as much end
Where ne'er from France arrived more happy men.
Hath all so long detain'd you from your wife,
Exeunt PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Where are those--Sit down, Kate, and welcome.--
Gardon, O sweet gardon! better than remuneration,
Stand you a while aloof, Cesario,
Wherefore is that? and what art thou that darest
His body couched in a curious bed,
I'll fight their legions o'er.
Why, Sir John, my face does you no harm.
Upon the water as he'll stand and read
Who chafes, who frets, or where conspirers are:
The scarecrow that affrights our children so.
Provost, a word with you.
All his offences live upon my head
But, hark, I hear the footing of a man.
the moon! A most poor credulous monster! Well
And urge her to a present answer back:
Exeunt GRATIANO and LORENZO
The circumstance I'll tell you more at large.
Bind up those tresses. O, what love I note
Sir, I have upon a high and pleasant hill
Now, sir, her father counts it dangerous
Exit
That birds would sing and think it were not night.
There's none so foul and foolish thereunto,
Nor dare I say 'tis mine, and yet it is;
How that the guilty kindred of the queen
noble gentleman, Edmund?
No, no, men living flatter those that die.
From sleeping Hermia? I'll believe as soon
A drop of blood a day; and, being aged,
Your naked infants spitted upon pikes,
Re-enter OSWALD
SCENE IV. The Queen's closet.
progression, hath miscarried. Trip and go, my
Flourish. Cornets. Exeunt in state, as before. BRUTUS and SICINIUS come forward
And nobles bearing banners, there lie dead
The other must be held the worthier.
Blessed be your royal grace!
No, you shall paint when you are old.
my husband? 'The forked one,' quoth he, 'pluck't
I did repel his fetters and denied
Exit
Enter MARINA, with a basket of flowers
Who is your sister's son, Mark Antony.
But now return we to the false Duke Humphrey.
our pleasure to fail, and then will they adventure
I believe drink gave thee the lie last night.
If she had not a spirit to resist.
and squabble? swagger? swear? and discourse
And never seek for aid out of himself. Yet see,
Now much beshrew my manners and my pride,
Or turn'd an eye of doubt upon my face,
But, as thou lovest thy life, make speed from hence.
Good morrow, prince; good morrow, Claudio:
Shall then be his, and like a vine grow to him:
The king by this is set him down to sleep.
My father of this business.
That paragons description and wild fame;
for I think you have no money in your purse.
In lieu whereof, I pray you, bear me hence
Ascends
Ay.
What, thyself?
Despite thy victor sword and fire-new fortune,
I am not mad, Sir Topas: I say to you, this house is dark.
We will make amends ere long;
Shalt carry from me to the empress' sons
Keeps good old York there with his men of war?
And after we will both our judgments join
And I will purge thy mortal grossness so
Or be a known friend, 'gainst his highness' pleasure,
To GONERIL
Enter three or four, and offer to bind him. He strives
Your mother too:
could say she were worse: think you of a worse
A strong faith to conceal it.
So long as we can say  'This is the worst.'
of shame and iniquity. O, you have heard something
Preferment goes by letter and affection,
Which now the house of Lancaster usurps,
And munch'd, and munch'd, and munch'd:--
Manage this war.
Now fetch me a stool hither by and by. Now, sirrah,
Thorough my rust! and how his pity
No more will I their babes: tears virginal
I'll not to bed to-night; let me alone;
Sirrah, what tidings? have you any letters?
And speak off half a dozen dangerous words,
Gentlemen.
business is performed, and remain, as he says, your
The other four in wondrous motion.
Take him, and use him well, he's worthy of it.
'Silvia, this night I will enfranchise thee.'
You that have been so tenderly officious
I have inly wept,
Sleeps
Your highness told me I should post before.
Enter a third Gentleman
O, sir, the conceit is deeper than you think for:
No more, no more.
But, if you frown upon this proffer'd peace,
In like manner was I in debt to my importunate
Now 'tis the spring, and weeds are shallow-rooted;
If I can get him within my pistol's length,
I do, my lord.
My lord, there is a messenger from Rome
Ay, madam, with the swiftest wing of speed.
Shall I be plain? I wish the bastards dead;
That the magnifico is much beloved,
I'll so offend, to make offence a skill;
Cupid's butt-shaft is too hard for Hercules' club;
painted cloth, where the glutton's dogs licked his
Falstaff, kind Jack Falstaff, true Jack Falstaff,
But, lovely niece, that mean is cut from thee;
Suddenly made him from my side to start
I'll have her; and if it be a match, as nothing is
To ruminate on this so far, until
that I have seen, some shall see.
And interchanging blows I quickly shed
I was going, sir,
He lends out money gratis and brings down
hundred ducats a-piece for his picture in little.
Of which I do accuse myself so sorely,
me quivers. Scurvy knave! Pray you, sir, a word:
That matter is answered directly.
Why comest thou?
And ample interchange of sweet discourse,
What, must it, nurse? then let no man but I
pack: 'Via!' says the fiend; 'away!' says the
In forty minutes.
twenty what were good to be done, than be one of the
We have been up and down to seek him.
Suffer love! a good epithet! I do suffer love
I think it well:
They say he yesterday coped Hector in the battle and
And fortify it strongly 'gainst the French:
Why droops my lord, like over-ripen'd corn,
hands, and says to his wife 'Fie upon this quiet
What news abroad?
If you should smile he grows impatient.
Is 'mongst the dead, and all the lands thou hast
Have been beholding to him in his life;
Of what kind should this cock come of?
SCENE XV. The same. A monument.
That him and his they in his palace burn;
Who, though they are of monstrous shape, yet, note,
him, thinkest thou? And what has he sent now?
But when I look on her perfections,
A weeder-out of his proud adversaries,
So that the ram that batters down the wall,
To the shining synod of the rest
Persuade me rather to be slave and sumpter
Till Lionel's issue fails, his should not reign:
Thinking his voice an armed Englishman;
I warrant, an I should live a thousand years,
Of your great danger.
Let not the world see fear and sad distrust
Is as a fiend confined to tyrannize
My brother did love Juliet,
Who, when they see the hours ripe on earth,
the way?--
Did I forget that by the house of York
at me; for it was so dark, Hal, that thou couldst
Force her hence.
If thou be there, sweet brother, take my hand.
Here is my hand, and here I firmly vow
Enter AEMILIUS
My name is Thyreus.
Here is your husband; like a mildew'd ear,
No, sweet Octavia,
Then my dial goes not true: I took this lark for a bunting.
I swound to see thee.
To PERICLES
this machine is to him, HAMLET.'
Can wash the balm off from an anointed king;
restitution. As I am a true spirit, welcome!
Not he that himself is not so; which is Mark Antony.
and happiness takes his leave.
Thou, thou, Lysander, thou hast given her rhymes,
man against his will.
a fool to make me merry than experience to make me
I see a woman may be made a fool,
While he himself keeps in the cold field?
The caterpillars of the commonwealth,
Our paragon to all reports thus blasted,
Studies my lady? mistress, look on me;
And the remainder mourning over them,
What, will you murder me? Thou gaoler, thou,
Titus, when wert thou wont to walk alone,
Argue the end of Edmund Mortimer.
SCENE II. Athens. QUINCE'S house.
A ladder brought, which AARON is made to ascend
If the dull brainless Ajax come safe off,
That cries 'Retire,' if Warwick bid him stay.
I'll teach you how to flow.
But, lords, we hear this fearful tempest sing,
I humbly do desire your grace of pardon:
Or rather swaying more upon our part
Still blush, as thinking their own kisses sin;
commendations go with pity; they are virtues and
Is't lost? is't gone? speak, is it out
Ere such another Julius. Britain is
And save me so much talking.
He throws without distinction. Give me leave,
For, whilst our pinnace anchors in the Downs,
Exeunt Guard
We speak in vain.
Which way is he, in the name of sanctity? If all
What, blushing still? have you not done talking yet?
A twelvemonth! well; befall what will befall,
Exit
To whom I am so infinitely bound.
What grows of it, no matter; advise your fellows so:
Now, what news on the Rialto?
I had rather be their servant in my way,
And from the powdering tub of infamy
Thou takest up
and seen the spider.
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words,
Enter PANDARUS and CRESSIDA
Go some of you and fetch a looking-glass.
And instances of infinite of love
but something given to lie; as a woman should not
Not dropp'd down yet.
eye upon the pernicious and indubitate beggar
Roundly replied.
'Tis a notorious villain. Take you this weapon,
I have the patience to endure it now.
I have strong reasons.
Andromache, I am offended with you:
That we the horrider may seem to those
Would it not shame thee in so fair a troop
Our lock'd embrasures, strangles our dear vows
Nor friends nor foes, to me welcome you are:
But one that's here, and that's himself, for he
I know him not, but I have heard of him;
Sharp Buckingham unburthens with his tongue
O, sit my husband's wrongs on Hereford's spear,
Where fame, late entering at his heedful ears,
But the word 'maid,' cheats the poor maid of that,
Of all his wars within the realm of France?
down indirectly to the Jew's house.
if you vouchsafe me hearing and respect.
Then, if you fight against God's enemy,
Be by some certain king purged and deposed.
Marry, master schoolmaster, he that is likest to a hogshead.
Whiles I in this affair do thee employ,
By holy Paul, they love his grace but lightly
unexperienced to thy grave.
To inherit such a haven: but first of all,
Soft son!
the streets; for, for the watch to babble and to
Is now become a god, and Cassius is
And prick my tender patience, to those thoughts
Was Ajax, call'd so from his grandfather.
And here another: the one of them imports
And we fairies, that do run
Why dost thou call them knaves? thou know'st them not.
virgins might blow up men?
One bred of alms and foster'd with cold dishes,
Thou dost belie him, Percy, thou dost belie him;
But, lords, in all our bloody massacre,
Did you see my cap?
Awake the god of day; and, at his warning,
That must we also. What it is, my Caius,
Where is she and her son? tell me, who knows.
By my troth, I'll go with thee to the lane's end:
My lord, they say five moons were seen to-night;
Enter LADY MACBETH
Blessing of his heart!
I' faith, sweet love, I was coming to your house.
Which serves as paste and cover to our bones.
struck him down, the disdain and shame whereof hath
But break, my heart; for I must hold my tongue.
To bait fish withal: if it will feed nothing else,
Well, what worst?
a man; and what a thing should I have been when I
lying; the longer kept, the less worth: off with 't
Exit RODERIGO
Unto my mother's prayers I bend my knee.
Not see him since? Sir, sir, that cannot be:
BRABANTIO appears above, at a window
Or, if we did derive it from our friends,
My mother, and my nurse, that bears me yet!
O!
At his distemperature.
To weed this wormwood from your fruitful brain,
But it must grieve young Pyrrhus now at home,
Being unprepared,
You bid them rise, and live.
Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head?
Should a like language use to all degrees
Stand you both forth now: stroke your chins, and
Do as the heavens have done, forget your evil;
The old cock.
It cannot fail but by
Carlisle, this is your doom:
My purpose would prove well. It cannot be
Are they not Athenians?
Love, friendship, charity, are subjects all
And in that chair where kings and queens are crown'd;
Where?
To after-eye him.
Gave any tragic instance of our harm:
O jest unseen, inscrutable, invisible,
In company I often glanced it;
The reasons you allege do more conduce
Have uncontemn'd gone by him, or at least
The manner of your bearing towards him, with
What is between you? give me up the truth.
An plant this thorn, this canker, Bolingbroke?
And mine, two hundred:
Cyprus. Othello, the fortitude of the place is best
Farewell, thou woful welcomer of glory!
Enter ISABELLA and FRANCISCA
Only for them; and mine eternal jewel
That they combine not there.
or it is upon a file with the duke's other letters
I have done penance for contemning Love,
Untimely comes this hurt: give me your arm.
Will they return?
'twere more honour some were away.
[Aside]  What's here?
In thy despite shall 'scape mortality.
How does my wife?
Stood the state so? No, no, good friends, God wot;
Killing swine.
peace and plenty.'
Colleagued with the dream of his advantage,
And by and by intend to chide myself
You must be father to your brother's daughter
Those that will hear me speak, let 'em stay here;
Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift;
An Antony, that I might do you service
Then, God be bless'd, it is the blessed sun:
The quality of persons, and the time,
Our cause, that she should lie i' the bosom of
Friend, know me better; I am the Lord Pandarus.
And yet within these five hours lived Lord Hastings,
For Edward will defend the town and thee,
out for him: I frown the while; and perchance wind
SCENE III. The lists at Coventry.
In state as wholesome as in state 'tis fit,
Now, sister, what's the comfort?
And, if we thrive, promise them such rewards
Thou art the rudeliest welcome to this world
I know you'ld fain be gone. An officer!
For, if you should, O, what would come of it!
Marry, sir, by a rule as plain as the plain bald
The morning wears, 'tis time we were at church.
So is he mine; and in such bloody distance,
Having often of your open bounty tasted,
Hope is a lover's staff; walk hence with that
shall be to your good; for my father's house and all
And that well might
We were never so much out of creatures. We have but
This 'tis to be married! this 'tis to have linen
To come to Padua. Know you not the cause?
The raven rook'd her on the chimney's top,
To wilful disobedience, and rebel!
draws on. Now, the hot-blooded gods assist me!
How you stand minded in the weighty difference
They have travell'd all the night? Mere fetches;
Speak to me home, mince not the general tongue:
It would discredit the blest gods, proud man,
By love's own sweet constraint, and will for ever
Like to his father's greatness: his approach,
Am something nearer.
Exit CATESBY
Cherish rebellion and are rebels all.
Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
Our coronation: lords, prepare yourselves.
Unwhipp'd of justice: hide thee, thou bloody hand;
What, was she ravish'd? tell who did the deed.
And write to her a love-line.
Or ever, but in vizards, show their faces?
My tears will choke me, if I ope my mouth.
ladyship behold and hear our exorcisms?
His eye-balls further out than when he lived,
The goodness of your intercepted packets
Troilus; you shall see anon.
Or brew it to a weak and colder palate,
O ye gods,
I go, I go.
of it but that she loves him with an enraged
Good den, brother.
clap upon you two or three probable lies: but we
You, sir, I entertain for one of my hundred; only I
never think to marry: I must not seem proud: happy
And since I have not much importuned you;
'The hobby-horse is forgot.'
I'ld with thee every foot.
Sluiced out his innocent soul through streams of blood:
For so they phrase 'em--by their heralds challenged
Pretty Ophelia!
When I wore it at your daughter's marriage?
Nay, look upon him.
I will encounter with Andronicus,
I shall review Sicilia, for whose sight
I am not Adriana nor thy wife.
Looking for Antony. But all the charms of love,
To offer it the show of violence;
To pluck away their power, as now at last
When grief, and blood ill-temper'd, vexeth him?
have fought with the men, I will be cruel with the
O, swear not by the moon, the inconstant moon,
And to set on this wretched woman here
Exit
Where peremptory Warwick now remains:
Didst break that vow; and with thy treacherous blade
This conduct to convey me to the Tower.
Pity the dearth that I have pined in,
In lieu of all thy pains and husbandry
betray nice wenches, that would be betrayed without
How now, Tubal! what news from Genoa? hast thou
You should then have accosted her; and with some
The French leap over the walls in their shirts.  Enter, several ways, the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, half ready, and half unready
We'll hear the will: read it, Mark Antony.
How pregnant sometimes his replies are! a happiness
Never harm,
Enter MARCUS ANDRONICUS, aloft, with the crown
And in the last repeating troublesome,
I know not: 'tis put to lottery; otherwise
There wanteth but a mean to fill your song.
John, to stop Arthur's title in the whole,
The Windsor bell hath struck twelve; the minute
was converted, might they not stop a beer-barrel?
Upon record, my gracious lord.
when he would have walked ten mile a-foot to see a
And find no harbour in a royal heart.
So may you by my dull and heavy eye,
Most barbarous, most degenerate! have you madded.
You must first go yourself to hazard, ere you have them.
Enter BUCKINGHAM
ANTIPHOLUS
His going I could frame to serve my turn,
Urge neither charity nor shame to me:
Well, I'll put it on, and I will dissemble myself
I have heard the Frenchman hath good skill in
Have struck but thus much show of fire from Brutus.
Exit
Unworthy thee,--if ever henceforth thou
widows and nine maids is a simple coming-in for one
But pay me terms of honour, cold and sickly
The wild sea of my conscience, I did steer
Look that you take upon you as you should;
To call upon him; he hopes it is no other
The first time ever Caesar put it on;
In delay there lies no plenty;
And pluck the crown from feeble Henry's head:
Why, so: being gone,
All viands that I eat do seem unsavoury.
Blunt wedges rive hard knots: the seeded pride
But, with a crafty madness, keeps aloof,
That run i' the clock's behalf. But this is foolery:
I left him private,
A thousand of his people butchered;
To employ you towards this Roman. Come, our queen.
Thou unadvised scold, I can produce
Was by the rough seas reft of ships and men,
Which I respect not. I did send to you
In eye of Caesar's battle; from which place
I come, Graymalkin!
That threw her in the sea. Make a fire within:
And yet dark night strangles the travelling lamp:
O, ay; and pities them.
My eyes, my lord, can look as swift as yours:
Peace, son! and show some reason, Buckingham,
Enter LEPIDUS, MECAENAS, and AGRIPPA
Fie, fie! unknit that threatening unkind brow,
Yet that which seems the wound to kill,
Exeunt
So are the horses of the enemy
I am ashamed: does not the stone rebuke me
Exeunt
What thou sayest?
know this to be true; therefore prepare yourself to
Who shall ask it?
Nor that is not the lark, whose notes do beat
With baleful weeds and precious-juiced flowers.
Are to a wise man ports and happy havens.
And ne'er was Agamemnon's brother wrong'd
And burst of speaking, were as his: I am absolute
Which waste of idle hours hath quite thrown down.
Of smoky muskets? O you leaden messengers,
Fall'n into taint: which to believe of her,
Enter a third Gentleman
Say ay, and be the captain of us all:
GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes
Nor mother, wife, nor England's counted queen.
This shadowy desert, unfrequented woods,
duke: and I believe I know the cause of his
Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage,
Bid ye so far forget yourselves? I gave ye
Where we may apprehend her and the Moor?
'Faith, I must ravish her, or she'll disfurnish us
recover him, I will help his ague. Come. Amen! I
Think, my lord!
As Ariachne's broken woof to enter.
[Within]  Mistress Ford, Mistress Ford! here's
you too, for here comes one in haste.
Ah, ah!
Come on my right hand, for this ear is deaf,
Falstaff as he will chafe at the doctor's marrying
that every braggart shall be found an ass.
Embracing
Exeunt all but PRINCE HENRY and FALSTAFF
Exit
Is richly noted and here justified
his service; you may tell every finger I have with
That kill'd thy daughter:--villain-like, I lie--
I did look upon.
Love! ay, that it shall, i' faith.
Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting,
Thy two sons forth; who, by Belarius stol'n,
Patience, be near me still; and set me lower:
As 'twere a careless trifle.
Wears yet a precious jewel in his head;
Performance shall follow.
By wicked powers.
By how much better than my word I am,
Be patient; we must bring you to our captain.
So the gods preserve thee!
Dost thou call me fool, boy?
Since thou deniest the gentle king to speak.
That he did seek the love of fair Olivia.
man is ever angry. Go, let him have a table by
SCENE VI. The same.
Advise him to a caution, to hold what distance
Banish me!
Let us condole the knight; for, lambkins we will live.
Plant neighbourhood and Christian-like accord
My wife must move for Cassio to her mistress;
The devil take order now! I'll to the throng:
Out of the teeth of emulation.
QUEEN KATHARINE makes no answer, rises out of her  chair, goes about the court, comes to KING HENRY VIII, and kneels at his feet; then speaks
it; the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
Creatures that by a rule in nature teach
This small inheritance my father left me
Quiet and gentle thy conditions! for
Wouldst thou then counsel me to fall in love?
We must have bloody noses and crack'd crowns,
You cannot better be employ'd, Bassanio,
[Aside]  I scarce know how.
What the good-year, my lord! why are you thus out
Exeunt
And drown consideration.
vouchsafe me.
When it is born in high authority:
Thou art always figuring diseases in me; but thou
O me, O me! My child, my only life,
How fares my brother? why is he so sad?
Thee here in dark to be his paramour?
Now will I stir this gamester: I hope I shall see
Your vessels and your spells provide,
To unbuild the city and to lay all flat.
Roderigo meant to have sent this damned villain;
And, being angry, does forget that ever
with me last night; who, if alive and ever dare to
The strong-ribb'd bark through liquid mountains cut,
Yea, my good lord.
SCENE III. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
As many arrows, loosed several ways,
For I will raise her statue in pure gold;
Go back, I warrant thee; but I'll catch thine eyes,
Are you good men and true?
Believe me, lords, for flying at the brook,
A Roman now adopted happily,
All the stored vengeances of heaven fall
Bless thee, bully doctor!
Make her thanks bless thee.
and all one.
To the very moment that he bade me tell it;
Namely, some love that drew him oft from home.
Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my
me for ever be your table-sport; let them say of
Silver'd in the moon's eclipse,
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss:
I have, as when the sun doth light a storm,
She weeps, and says her Henry is deposed;
maledictions against king and nobles; needless
so forcible is thy wit. But I must tell thee
I will survey the inscriptions back again.
Music, ho! music, such as charmeth sleep!
And notwithstanding all her sudden quips,
kind master.
Now thou dost penance too. Look how they gaze!
He dives into the king's soul, and there scatters
Is only bitter to him, only dying,
The ring I saw upon his finger now--
Of damned witchcraft, and that have prevail'd
Enter DOLABELLA
No longer on Saint Denis will we cry,
Calpurnia!
The clergy in example.
For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale,
He is my dear friend, an please you.
That the great child of honour, Cardinal Wolsey, Was dead?
How fares my Kate? What, sweeting, all amort?
Whose daggers have stabb'd Caesar; I do fear it.
Our navy thrive, I have an absolute hope
Or any of my brothers of the state,
the hall: he sends to know if your pleasure hold to
How? what?
tanner of Wingham,--
As if I loved my little should be dieted
Of being tyrannous, since we so openly
O, too much folly is it, well I wot,
Another Hero!
Prodigious birth of love it is to me,
May they not be my oracles as well,
Will creep in service where it cannot go.
Enclosed were they with their enemies:
be a reasonable man, grew so in love with the
Did pocket up my letters, and with taunts
Under the greenwood tree
And says, if ladies be but young and fair,
Thee will I love and with thee lead my life:
Some villain hath done me wrong.
Of usance for my moneys, and you'll not hear me:
of mine; where, if, before repast, it shall please
To turn their own points on their masters' bosoms:
I cannot tell. Those that do teach young babes
at the gate?
Because thou hast not so much charity in thee as to
the friend of France; for I love France so well that
Enter MARK ANTONY with a Messenger and Attendants
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
Exit
Till famine and the ague eat them up:
Obscure and lowly swain, King Henry's blood,
Mingle their spurs together.
Pretty! What say you, Hugh Rebeck?
yet, to crush this a little, it would bow to me, for
gentleman, you shall, if you will, enjoy Ford's wife.
Adore our errors; laugh at's, while we strut
Enter a Soldier, seeking TIMON
Nine changes of the watery star hath been
How deeply you at once do touch me! Imogen,
To me inveterate, hearkens my brother's suit;
Over park, over pale,
Or will not else thy craft so quickly grow,
Is stopp'd with dust; the first of April died
That now I will have: that's the humour of it.
The adventure of her person?
Who may that be, I pray you?
In such a night
You shall confess that you are both deceived.
yield them,
Should be presented at our tent to us.
Sad Lucretia's modesty.
Enter TITANIA, with her train
O Lord, Lord! it is a hard matter for friends to
The matter is to me, sir, as concerning Jaquenetta.
The French ambassador upon that instant
natural, if philosophy could find it out.
And when this hail some heat from Hermia felt,
you seek us afterwards in other terms, you
I say unto you, what he hath done famously, he did
For such a guest is meet.
beard is less than a man: and he that is more than
Farewell! Othello's occupation's gone!
What, is he angry too?
To teach you gamut in a briefer sort,
Masters, let him go
I was the next by birth and parentage;
Like to a censer in a barber's shop:
Has censured him
And so, good night.
Is jollity for apes and grief for boys.
Put in their hands thy bruising irons of wrath,
Stabs KING CLAUDIUS
Clifford, devise excuses for thy faults.
Perchance some single vantages you took.
Exit
and anon falleth like a crab on the face of terra,
Till which encounter,
ACT I
Let all of his complexion choose me so.
Knock,
I will desire you to live in the mean time, and eat
himself fears it not from another: let your general
You mistake, sir; I am sure no man hath any quarrel
Yet show some pity.
And lead thy daughter to a conqueror's bed;
Exeunt
Go, you cot-quean, go,
But weakly guarded, where the breach was made.
No, no, on my soul, it never shall be said.
That he would labour my delivery.
And my kind kinsman, warriors all, adieu!
To find his title with some shows of truth,
Ay, my good lord.
And say'st it is not fit.
action? do I not bate? do I not dwindle? Why my
The time to come.
I'll hide my master from the flies, as deep
I think it be.
He smiled at it: I told him you were coming:
How they are stain'd, as meadows, yet not dry,
You were conducted to a gentle bath
Enter EMILIA
little finger, there is some hope the ladies of
How now, master Parson! Good morrow, good Sir Hugh.
For that is her demand, and know her business?
This minion stood upon her chastity,
Shall be brought drunken forth, and I shall see
What the devil art thou?
I was, an't like your majesty.
I do entreat your grace to pardon me.
I beg for justice, which thou, prince, must give;
service is seldom attributed to the true and exact
With shallow jesters and rash bavin wits,
fortunes against any lay worth naming, this
comes this night to Messina.
Our fancies are more giddy and unfirm,
For which my sinews shall be stretch'd upon him.
Man?
Wherein we play in.
Conceiving you: were I but twenty-one,
And pours down mischief. Austria's head lie there,
And you shall find me, wretched man, a thing
Even at noon-day upon the market-place,
He shall well know
and lady dear!'
Makes him to send; that thereby he may gather
Swooning destruction, or some joy too fine,
Shall outstrike thought: but thought will do't, I feel.
And send the hearers weeping to their beds:
Now, by the honour of my ancestry,
Look, when he fawns, he bites; and when he bites,
O Lord, my lord, if they were but a week married,
I understand you not, my lord.
For beauty starved with her severity
If you be well pleased with this
a lute-string and now governed by stops.
That came a-wooing with you, and so many a time,
Now heavens forbid such scarcity of youth!
And 'twill be supper-time ere you come there.
Speak, count, 'tis your cue.
present for any emperor that ever trod on neat's leather.
ANTIPHOLUS
and view the Frenchmen how they fortify:
Ajax goes up and down the field, asking for himself.
Before the duke, and to the head of Angelo
Enter the Lord Marshal and the DUKE OF AUMERLE
My mouth no more were broken than these boys',
Is this the way?
They would not mark me, or if they did mark,
And buried one and twenty valiant sons,
Exit with his train. Flourish of cornets
In, in, in, in!
Nothing at this time but my visitation: only I will
Go you before to Gloucester with these letters.
Be truly welcome hither: I am the duke
My chastity's the jewel of our house,
Be buried quick with her, and so will I:
And where this breach now in our fortunes made
Bring them before us.
looking wildly, and would needs speak with you presently.
O, none so welcome.
Come, sir, it wants a twelvemonth and a day,
Sir Thurio, give us leave, I pray, awhile;
Come, I'll convey thee through the city-gate;
I have great comfort from this fellow: methinks he
Give me his gage: lions make leopards tame.
This boy, that cannot tell what he would have
I do it not in evil disposition,
And then it lived in sweet Elysium.
Nay, not as one would say, healthy; but so sound as
lanthorn is the moon; I, the man in the moon; this
And my heart breaks at it.
I play the noble housewife with the time
With visages displayed, to talk and greet.
Though daintily brought up, with patience more
[Aside]  Amen; and make me die a good old man!
Exeunt
Hast thou so crack'd and splitted my poor tongue
in some form.
Am come to crave thy just and lawful aid;
Like poison given to work a great time after,
Piece out our imperfections with your thoughts;
It is with a good will; I can tell you, it will
[Sings]
wife; come, Mistress Page. I pray you, pardon me;
Which he so sets at nought.
And, seeking death, find life: let it come on.
The treason and you go in peace away together.
And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now!
The best in this kind are but shadows; and the worst
To KING LEWIS XI
For God's sake, let not us two be behind;
Why, what care I? If thou canst nod, speak too.
Believe't not lightly--though I go alone,
Are not these large enough?
Enter TYRREL
Most certain.
That are without him, as place, riches, favour,
to heat as butter; a man of continual dissolution
As crooked in thy manners as thy shape!
Oft have I heard that grief softens the mind,
We took this mattock and this spade from him,
O, tell me how it is; for ne'er till now
My liege, here is a villain and a traitor, that,
Weigh them, it is as heavy; conjure with 'em,
the physician: the most sovereign prescription in
His confessor, who fed him every minute
Spirt up so suddenly into the clouds,
For soldiers' pay in France, and never sent it?
unless you repute yourself such a loser. What, man!
For, meeting her of late behind the wood,
My rage is gone;
Making them lightest that wear most of it:
blood and baseness of our natures would conduct us
Sometime puts forth. In your affairs, my lord,
An emperor in Rome thus overborne,
Come hither, Bess, and let me kiss my boy.
these eyes? I cannot tell; I think not: I will not
My house, mine honour, yea, my life, be thine,
Teaching all that read to know
But this is something odd.
Knowing all measures, the full Caesar will
I'll note you in my book of memory,
My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar,
Nay, come, I pray thee, speak; good, good nurse, speak.
Solemn music
To this pernicious caitiff deputy,--
In drops of crimson blood.
Beguiling them of commendation.
I can shake off at pleasure.
For folly that he wisely shows is fit;
O,'tis Marcius!
When you have done, repair to Crosby Place.
It was not lent me neither.
Whose double tongue may with a mortal touch
Prithee, hie thee; he'll come anon:--
That without desert have frown'd on me;
a reckoning. I am not yet of Percy's mind, the
How? out of tune on the strings?
And is enough for both.
If you love her, you cannot see her.
Which would be so much the more dangerous
Who are the late commissioners?
The day to cheer and night's dank dew to dry,
By her he had two children at one birth.
His wife that's dead did trespasses to Caesar;
upon London-stone, I charge and command that, of the
And hast the comfort of thy children left thee:
under it, QUEEN ANNE in her robe; in her hair
Eighty odd years of sorrow have I seen,
To bring me where to speak with Madam Silvia.
Which I have told thee of my father's death:
the ditch-dog; drinks the green mantle of the
Do you neglect them?
As words to little purpose.
grace, by the world, sometime to lean upon my poor
Faith, thou hast some crotchets in thy head. Now,
And at my suit, sweet, pardon what is past.
birth-day; and there are princes and knights come
Fathers that wear rags
The levied succors that should lend him aid,
Transparent heretics, be burnt for liars!
face me. Give me a cup of sack: I am a rogue, if I
Enter MACBETH
Shall not regreet our fair dominions,
[Within]  Mome, malt-horse, capon, coxcomb,
beseech your society.
The hollow passage of my poison'd voice,
Weeping before for what she saw must come,
Exit GLOUCESTER
As the Venus of the sky.
For Brutus only overcame himself,
As you fly from your oft-subdued slaves.
That shall maintain what I have said is true,
To cure the desperate languishings whereof
love sack, and so do I; would you desire better
Enforce him with his envy to the people,
The ground that gave them first has them again:
I'll go along with you.
day! Alas, poor Harry of England! he longs not for
Heaven forgive him too!
How lesser enmities may give way to greater.
When crouching marrow in the bearer strong
And interchanged love-tokens with my child:
Alas, poor man! grief has so wrought on him,
Owes nothing to thy blasts. But who comes here?
prithee, be gone.
I came into the world with my legs forward:
Call on him for't: but to confound such time,
The loss of those three lords torments my heart:
all flesh and blood are; and, indeed, I do marry
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
If e'er your grace had speech with man so poor,
Fortune, she said, was no goddess, that had put
My Lord!
Great lords and gentlemen, what means this silence?
Shall be applied: for us we will resign,
The head and he shall louse;
Mistress, what's your opinion of your sister?
Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy,
Yea, yea, my lord: I'll yield him thee asleep,
Romeo is coming.
Enter a Messenger
And then dreams he of smelling out a suit;
Till thou give joy; until thou bid me joy,
O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath!
But then a noise did scare me from the tomb;
Why, he will look upon his boot and sing; mend the
Without a burthen: time as long again
[Aside to MOTH]  Their eyes, villain, their eyes!
His arms thus leagued: I thought he slept, and put
And to revenge thine eyes. Come hither, friend:
for that. If you would conjure in her, you must
riding to London with fat purses: I have vizards
Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
Exit
As surely as my soul intends to live
I thank God, I thank God. Is't true, is't true?
O, yes, and soundless too;
Exeunt, bearing the dead bodies
Have made it tedious, wearisome, and heavy
It is my father's will I should take on me
Nothing certainer:
If it be confessed, it is not redress'd: is not that
I hear it sing i' the wind: yond same black
you, sir; it comes from the ambassador that was
Cardinal Campeius is arrived, and lately;
Lay hands on him; a dog!
Here is a rural fellow
Tush!
Alas, I am not coop'd here for defence!
the bed she hath contaminated.
She'll find a white that shall her blackness fit.
Enter a Messenger
And thou, O wall, O sweet, O lovely wall,
And like the kind life-rendering pelican,
I am heartily glad I came hither to you. If he come
The trust, the office I do hold of you,
Theretake it to you, trenchers, cups, and all;
That he is borne about invisible:
She is an heir of Falconbridge.
Among the Italian gentry, and to fight
Patience, good sir.
faults whipped them not; and our crimes would
Enter a Lady
Alcides, thou mine ancestor, thy rage:
Never was such a sudden scholar made;
A devil, a born devil, on whose nature
Are still together, who twin, as 'twere, in love
Madam, an hour before the worshipp'd sun
the most sufficient of your parish.
From this unhallowed and blood-stained hole?
Some heavy business hath my lord in hand,
No, this was he, Messala,
your lordship.
Not a soul
First, heaven be the record to my speech!
Look for no less than death.
And, in thy best consideration, cheque
Into his power, and modest wisdom plucks me
Then thou wert best say that I am not Lucentio.
His napkin, with his true tears all bewet,
Great Master of France, the brave Sir Guichard Dolphin,
Then into limits could I bind my woes:
whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke;
To-night in Harfleur we will be your guest;
Come, to the port. I'll tell thee, Diomed,
Sirrah, call in my sons to be my bail;
O, no! thou diest, though I the sicker be.
Whilst Dighton thus told on: 'We smothered
Some to the wars, to try their fortune there;
The keys of all the posterns: please your highness
How does your fallow greyhound, sir? I heard say he
soft music playing; Gentleman, and others attending.
Exit
The posture of your blows are yet unknown;
Those legs that brought me to a part of it!
Mistress Kate Keepdown was with child by him in the
That livest to make thine honesty a vice!
O, Signior Balthazar, either at flesh or fish,
He had, before this last expedition, twenty-five
But there I leave to love where I should love.
Laughest thou, wretch? thy mirth shall turn to moan.
I would thou hadst told me of another father.
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze,
SCENE I. Before OLIVIA's house.
By means whereof this breast of mine hath buried
Of neither, girl:
And I must freely have the half of anything
claw no man in his humour.
Dead Shepherd, now I find thy saw of might,
sayest thou that house is dark?
Enter another Gentleman
embrace your own safety and give over this attempt.
Ha! 'tis he, indeed:
Though you, it seems, come from the fliers.
heart of flattery about me, I cannot so conjure up
Enter a Messenger
Out upon you! what a man are you!
Kinsmen, his sorrows are past remedy.
And all the rest look like a chidden train:
but, to my thinking, he was very loath to lay his
My uncle's will in this respect is mine:
In thy tail!
Is't so, my lords of England?
Turn giddy, and be holp by backward turning;
And by whose letters I'll dispose myself.
Whom Henry, our late sovereign, ne'er could brook?
As we with honour and respect may take,
Let us, that are poor petitioners, speak too:
That I am dog-weary: but at last I spied
From one that so imperfectly conceits,
cast ashore.
That is an old device; and it was play'd
With such accommodation and besort
Upon the caves of Nile.
My purposes do draw me much about:
You! did you?
My lord, I say! Othello!
strength: if you saw yourself with your eyes or
That cures us both. I am much sorry, sir,
You have a father able to maintain you;
Capitulate against us and are up.
He went hence but now,
And bootless make the breathless housewife churn;
So let me find thee still. Take this same letter,
And simpler than the infancy of truth.
What manner of man is he?
True; and yet it is said, labour in thy vocation;
Your lady is forthcoming yet at London.
But how I caught it, found it, or came by it,
There lay he, stretched along, like a wounded knight.
Ho, ho, ho!
Till Birnam forest come to Dunsinane.
commanded out of the chamber; only this methought I
Come on, sir; hold.
And this, so sole and so unmatchable,
You Edward, shall unto my Lord Cobham,
That wench is stark mad or wonderful froward.
Alarum. Enter KING HENRY, and forces; WARWICK, GLOUCESTER, EXETER, and others
Domestic fury and fierce civil strife
More free from peril than the envious court?
worm is your only emperor for diet: we fat all
My son George Stanley is frank'd up in hold:
I shall lack voice: the deeds of Coriolanus
In the whole world: but yet let me lament,
I am a scribbled form, drawn with a pen
Flattering myself, as if it were the Moor
slight and trivial a nature.
To treat of high affairs touching that time.
The traitor lives, the true man's put to death.
Be swift like lightning in the execution;
for this drivelling love is like a great natural,
Quoted and sign'd to do a deed of shame,
Once more I come to know of thee, King Harry,
[Within]  And you said no.
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
Under your promised pardon. The subjects' grief
Since I have set my friends at peace on earth.
thee, out with't, and place it for her chief virtue.
And take our goodly aged men by the beards,
Exit
access to thee.
Drawing him aside
Nor I.
The emperor's coming in behalf of France,
Even at the heels in golden multitudes.
But say, Lucetta, now we are alone,
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
SCENE I. Cyprus. A street.
'Tis not unknown to thee that I have sought
And, I'll warrant her, fun of game.
The wish would make else an unquiet house.
If thou so yield him, there is gold, and here
is young; and, therefore, if you should deal double
'Tell him from me that he hath done me wrong,
Is nought but bitterness. Now, Roderigo,
Taurus! That's sides and heart.
Exeunt
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  He knows the game: how true
Make instruments to plague us:
O madam, madam, madam!
Yet, coming from him, that great medicine hath
From whence himself does fly? He loves us not;
cause, being her uncle and her guardian.
Rough and unhospitable: my willing love,
Thus have I politicly begun my reign,
He that unbuckles this, till we do please
The sum of all I can, I have disclosed;
When thou shalt kneel, and justify in knowledge
Please you, retire to your chamber.
Longer to live most weary, and present
God pardon all oaths that are broke to me!
Shall never see his pardon; for my state
Exeunt
I know he'll quickly fly my friendship too.
And what's the news, good cousin Lodovico?
I see thy glory like a shooting star
Than at the strangeness of it.
Keeps wassail, and the swaggering up-spring reels;
There is no wrong, but every thing is right.
And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy:
O, my good lords, and virtuous Henry,
Without debatement further, more or less,
Parcel the sum of my disgraces by
I'll cross it, though it blast me. Stay, illusion!
Swear by the duty that you owe to God--
SCENE VII. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
Here comes little Robin.
My strong imagination sees a crown
By you to be sustain'd, shall our abode
I love not many words.
Love is merely a madness, and, I tell you, deserves
of profession: one would think it were Mistress
And so it is. For this time I will leave you:
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
To stranger blood, to foreign royalty.
His little kingdom of a forced grave.
Impossible.
When I should mount with wings of victory:
And at thy feet I kneel, with tears of joy,
And good reason; for thereby is England mained, and
Of earned praise, Marina's life
Thawing cold fear, that mean and gentle all,
Of noble Richard! then true noblesse would
Those which I heaved to head!--the good Posthumus--
The tears have got small victory by that;
Tell Helicanus, my Marina, tell him
What wilt thou tell her, nurse? thou dost not mark me.
What things in the world canst thou nearest compare
And ne'er have stol'n the breech from Lancaster.
Why, villain, thou must know first.
Yea, and perhaps with more successful words
And brief, good mother; for I am in haste.
From Cupid's shoulder pluck his painted wings
Whose end is purposed by the mighty gods?
With dull unwilligness to repay a debt
Where powers are your retainers, and your words,
My land amounts not to so much in all:
ACT V
Shall be when your first queen's again in breath;
Let it be forbid, sir; so should I be a great deal
And your great-uncle's, Edward the Black Prince,
I conjure thee but slowly; run more fast.
shall hear more by midnight.
All that you meet are thieves: to Athens go,
Of all thy sex; most monster-like, be shown
if I were the parson. One in ten, quoth a'! An we
Exit
He says so.
Exeunt
Blood will I draw on thee, thou art a witch,
Of palisadoes, frontiers, parapets,
Look to the boy.
A rare talent!
That dare as well answer a man indeed
your father.
Three times to-day I holp him to his horse,
Prithee, away.
For, my good liege, she is so idly king'd,
And skip where thou point'st out? will the
several tunes faster than you'll tell money; he
Ay, and more.
ANTIPHOLUS
Enter ANNE PAGE, with wine; MISTRESS FORD and MISTRESS PAGE, following
In my whole course of wooing, thou criedst 'Indeed!'
shall have my pocket picked? I have lost a
We are not here. That you should here repent you,
They do abuse the king that flatter him:
And leave us to our free election.
To slay thy brother Abel, if thou wilt.
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars,
And hate the idle pleasures of these days.
Who either by public war or private treason
Art then forsaken, as thou went'st forlorn!
Here is a wonder, if you talk of a wonder.
were endowed with all that Adam bad left him before
To thee the reed is as the oak:
Steps me a little higher than his vow
Let's obey his humour a little further: come,
O Peter, thou hast prevailed in right!
The wager you have laid.
Love not such nights as these; the wrathful skies
By what thou swear'st against the thing thou swear'st,
A cry of hounds and horns, winded in a peal. Enter  SATURNINUS, TAMORA, BASSIANUS, LAVINIA, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, and Attendants
This is fery fantastical humours and jealousies.
To call young Claudio to a reckoning for it.
unblessed and the ingredient is a devil.
By the very truth of it, I care not for you,
Welcome, Sir John! But why come you in arms?
Set all upon me, mighty sovereign.
Hath with the king's blood stain'd the king's own land.
speech of insultment ended on his dead body, and
And here's thy hand, in scorn to thee sent back;
Unto my father and my uncle Marcus,
Why that way?
I'll have no husband, if you be not he:
So all.
Your faithful subject I, a gentleman
Where's my spaniel Troilus? Sirrah, get you hence,
I beg this boon, with tears not lightly shed,
From thine own sister's shame? What should I think?
I shall both find your lordship judge and juror,
rogue's company. If the rascal hath not given me
Discard, bully Hercules; cashier: let them wag; trot, trot.
Or seeming so in skill, cannot or will not
Why, what art thou?
And fair she is, if that mine eyes be true,
'Tis true, to hurt his master, no man else.
bitterness of it I now belch from my heart--that she
Why?
I mean, the fashion.
We will haste us.
Fare thee well, king: sith thus thou wilt appear,
And I the king shall love thee.
Are pleased to breed out your inheritors:
They never then had sprung like summer flies;
Who's this? O God! it is my father's face,
Exeunt POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and IACHIMO
What, sir?
The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees,
fear of Got in a riot: the council, look you, shall
Music, still
Somewhat too early for new-married ladies.
May safely come to him, and be resolved
Is the Duke of Exeter safe?
Why, then mine honesty shall be my dower;
Fetch him off, I pray you; he speaks nothing but
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero and hath
O'erborne their way, consumed with fire, and took
That it yields nought but shame and bitterness.
What's his will else?
To bring the roof to the foundation,
Away, away!
Fatal this marriage, cancelling your fame,
To scape his hands where I was like to die.
Nay, an you be so tardy, come no more in my sight: I
From Ampthill where the princess lay; to which
Strange that power should be. Canidius,
There's not a grain of it the face to sweeten
Keep off aloof with worthless emulation.
SCENE I. Troy. Priam's palace.
Tear-falling pity dwells not in this eye.
Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
Then, as my gift and thine own acquisition
My business, sir, is to the king.
Follow Fluellen closely at the heels:
To do obsequious sorrow: but to persever
You use in abject and in slavish parts,
To hold my stirrup nor to take my horse!
And be resolved he lives to govern us,
and by midnight look to hear further from me.
None in the world; but return with an invention and
Sir, your wit ambles well; it goes easily.
sup a flea.
May it please your honour, my lord hath sent--
Cries 'Excellent! 'tis Agamemnon just.
The Prince of Arragon hath ta'en his oath,
Of great Apollo's priest; and that, since then,
I afeard of him! A very weak monster! The man i'
friendly counsel: I will run, fiend; my heels are
[Aside]  If it be a sin to make a true election, she
Thou stern, obdurate, flinty, rough, remorseless.
them may have crook'd noses, but to owe such
She has deceived her father, and may thee.
Even in the chair of state: belike he means,
Lady, by yonder blessed moon I swear
Get me an iron crow, and bring it straight
Why, then All-Souls' day is my body's doomsday.
Said he not so? or did I dream it so?
Good Captain Blunt, bear my good-night to him,
by the king than by that red-tailed humble-bee I speak of.
And here, I hope, is none that envies it.
Now, sir, have I met you again? there's for you.
When time shall call him home from banishment,
And the conclusion is, she shall be thine.
These be good humours! your honour wins bad humours.
Re-enter DENNY, with CRANMER
We have.
I would your highness would depart the field:
SCENE V. Court before the same.
In thine own person answer thy abuse.
Loved as he loves himself: even now I met him
Enter BIRON
Of Tybalt deaf to peace, but that he tilts
Doubly portcullis'd with my teeth and lips;
You must prepare your bosom for his knife.
Good my lord, be good to me; your honour is accounted
We have landed in ill time: the skies look grimly
What, was your vizard made without a tongue?
Is not lead a metal heavy, dull, and slow?
I was the more deceived.
Here's my lord.
Virtue itself: these shrugs, these hums and ha's,
going to my wife, and Falstaff's boy with her. A
And Ethiopes of their sweet complexion crack.
The art of our necessities is strange,
That makes these odds all even.
washing her hands: I have known her continue in
The other for some while a friend.
Therefore I tell my sorrows to the stones;
Art thou the slave that with thy breath hast kill'd
Well know they what they speak that speak so wisely.
He is at Milford-Haven: read, and tell me
I mean not cuckold-mad;
The splitting rocks cower'd in the sinking sands
Why, she hath not writ to me?
If so, I pray thee, breathe it in mine ear,
The duke was here, and bid us follow him?
Come hither, fellow: which way hast thou been?
If thou retire, the Dauphin, well appointed,
You stared upon me with ungentle looks;
Is worth of consuls, senators, patricians,
A charitable duty of my order.
There be some such, no question.
And given way unto this course of fortune.
The second and the third, nine, and some five;
Pride, haughtiness, opinion and disdain:
And, by that virtue, no man dare accuse you.
Enter CALPURNIA
taught her suitor,
It shall not wind with such a deep indent,
An all men were o' my mind,--
Some villain, ay, and singular in his art.
Abetting him to thwart me in my mood!
the least syllable of thy addition.
Who takes offence at that would make me glad?
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
Had borne the business!'
That thus hath made me weep?
A pox on't, let it go; 'tis but a drum.
blow us. There was a haberdasher's wife of small
As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
You need but plead your honourable privilege.
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
Ay, and break it in your face, so he break it not behind.
In the converse of breath: your gentleness
Hie to high fortune! Honest nurse, farewell.
My wife, more careful for the latter-born,
But yesternight, my lord, she and that friar,
The chief perfections of that lovely dame
Marry, my lord, there is a nobleman of the court at
Conscience is but a word that cowards use,
Of his ill-ta'en suspicion! Come, Camillo;
Making it light to Cassio. Cassio, I love thee
Decking with liquid pearl the bladed grass,
gondola. Why, how now, Orlando! where have you been
Re-enter SUFFOLK
Will this hold, think you?
Might fire the blood of ordinary men,
Ay, sir; whom, I thank heaven, is an honest woman,--
Becomes as aged, and doth beg the alms
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
If on the first, how heinous e'er it be,
And you, forsooth, had the good duke to keep:
only peacemaker; much virtue in If.
O, 'tis the curse in love, and still approved,
She's punish'd for her truth, and undergoes,
The king he is hunting the deer; I am coursing
hangman shall execute it. Come your ways. We'll
Lechery, by this hand; an index and obscure prologue
Good or bad?
is a strumpet. What's the news?
Our enemy is banish'd! he is gone! Hoo! hoo!
If they perceive dissension in our looks
There was a lady once, 'tis an old story,
Rebuke me not for that which you provoke:
Good night and welcome, both at once, to those
Caesar; for he swounded and fell down at it: and
Your resolution cannot hold, when 'tis
Has business at his house; for all shall stay:
That's AEneas: is not that a brave man? he's one of
In the secret parts of fortune? O, most true; she
Enter SOMERSET, with drum and colours
When, for fame's sake, for praise, an outward part,
To bear his image and renew his glories!
But freshly looks and over-bears attaint
By waves from coast to coast is tost:
Laying down the child
But, room, fairy! here comes Oberon.
And ere this hand, by thee to Romeo seal'd,
There's time enough for that;
Were my lord so, his ignorance were wise,
That Harry Duke of Hereford, Rainold Lord Cobham,
If I were mad, I should forget my son,
That were most precious to me. Did heaven look on,
By God's sonties, 'twill be a hard way to hit. Can
Who wrought it with the king, and who perform'd
Even as our days do grow!
For the commodity that strangers have
O, gentlemen, help!
I will respect thee as a father if
Thou shalt be so well master'd, but, be sure,
A serving-man, proud in heart and mind; that curled
And straightway give thy soul to him thou servest.
First, what is your place?
Do you hear, masters? do you hear?
I have charged thee not to haunt about my doors:
The mind shall banquet, though the body pine:
But saying o'er what I have said before:
But to relieve them of their heavy load;
'No woman shall succeed in Salique land:'
And many a civil monster.
Peace!
Andronicus himself did take it up.
Once more, adieu: be valiant, and speed well!
My mind as generous, and my shape as true,
Flourish and march. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and soldiers
Well, sir, the poor distressed Lear's i' the town;
To-morrow shall you know our mind at full.
How follows that?
Lay them in gore,
Here are the articles of contracted peace
Myself have letters of the selfsame tenor.
Set we our squadrons on yond side o' the hill,
and be gone from Troilus: 'twill be his death;
The rightful heir to England's royal seat.
Then in dumb silence will I bury mine,
What from the cape can you discern at sea?
hallowed and brought a benediction to the buyer:
come to take hands; and then, with public
Why, do you think he will make no deed at all of
Perhaps you mark'd not what's the pith of all.
Will cheer me ever, or disseat me now.
I' the east my pleasure lies.
I think you have hit the mark: but is't not cruel
This royal throne of kings, this scepter'd isle,
False-boding woman, end thy frantic curse,
Were to prove false, which I will never be,
capable creature.
This, fellow: what wouldst?
Exit
Thou hast neither heat, affection, limb, nor beauty,
SCENE IV. The forest.
her wind so short, as if she were frayed with a
Too true; and bought his climbing very dear.
Now, had I not the dash of my former life in me,
I do, my lord; but long I shall not stay
And send forth us, to make their sorrow'd render,
dat I shall have Anne Page for myself? By gar, I
Alas, my father, it befits not me
business, and I will merrily accompany you home.
Were most impertinent.
Alack, what heinous sin is it in me
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
Farewell, my sovereign.
Nor conversant with ease and idleness,
There's a bargain made.
If it be you that stir these daughters' hearts
Farewell nobility; let his grace go forward,
I am determined to prove a villain
And whatsoever cunning fiend it was
Unto their lords, by them accomplished:
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
You speak him far.
Must die for love. 'Twas pretty, though plague,
Of such as your oppression feeds upon,
The other is daughter to the banish'd duke,
You, that have turn'd off a first so noble wife,
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
The Bastard of Orleans with him is join'd;
To join our kingdoms and our hearts; and never
Deny us for our good; so find we profit
Here, sir, a ring she bid me give you, sir:
Of all the voices that we have procured
Are of consent and sufferance in this.
Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale
Exit
And never shall it more be gracious.
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
DON
French march. Enter BURGUNDY and forces
And I will look on both indifferently,
ever know beloved?
Go to the empress, tell her this I said.
Arise, and take place by us: half your suit
Why then should I be consul? By yond clouds,
By my troth, thou hast an open hand. These wise men
which his animals on his dunghills are as much
Exit
Sound on into the drowsy race of night;
Madam, yond young fellow swears he will speak with
How now, nuncle! Would I had two coxcombs and two daughters!
So is Lysander.
Depending on their brands.
Have steep'd their galls in honey and do serve you
Call'd you, my lord?
I did not think thee lord of such a spirit:
That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
To such abhorr'd pollution.
'Well!' why, I do so.
Would I were as deep under the earth as I am above!
Then thus: of many good I think him best.
Alas, poor duke! the task he undertakes
master Vincentio! now we are undone and brought to nothing.
Our ancient word of courage, fair Saint George,
My most exquisite Sir Topas!
What are you here that cry so grievously?
Re-enter WHITMORE with SUFFOLK's body
Come to me, Tyrrel, soon at after supper,
Knights, from my daughter this I let you know,
Of love between your daughter and himself:
'Justice, and your father's wrath, should he take me
Lies in their purses, and whoso empties them
A lady wall'd about with diamonds!
And give him half: and, for thy vigour,
I swear I will not die to-day for any man's
With ample and brim fulness of his force,
Now thou and I are new in amity,
Is't not the tenor of his oracle,
[To KING RICHARD III]
My mother did but duty; such, my lord,
Cousin of Exeter, frowns, words and threats
Or else dries up; to be discarded thence!
And foams at mouth, and he is arm'd and at it,
own peril on his forwardness.
and heard; but faintly, nothing like the image
Wrench his sword from him.
In all my lands and leases whatsoever:
And Caesar shall go forth.
More straining on for plucking back, not following
That call'd me timelier than my purpose hither;
Let your highness
All hail, Macbeth, hail to thee, thane of Cawdor!
To the Fool
Detain no jot, I charge thee: write to him--
For wise men say it is the wisest course.
Nor no such men as you have reckon'd up,
That would behold in me this shameful sport.
Tell me not, friar, that thou hear'st of this,
Of dreaded justice, but on the ministers
Farewell, good Launcelot.
Most heavenly music!
Thy lips, those kissing cherries, tempting grow!
For tubs and baths; bring down rose-cheeked youth
You have not been inquired after:
to change your mind.
Exeunt
If by your art, my dearest father, you have
Hear me, grave fathers! noble tribunes, stay!
Those same noble Scots
Whispers
Yet wrung with wrongs more than our backs can bear:
Carry his water to the wise woman.
Who I'll entreat to lead me.
My chamber-councils, wherein, priest-like, thou
Nay, it is possible enough to judgment:
Creep into acorn-cups and hide them there.
I view the fight than thou that makest the fray.
O, then, what graces in my love do dwell,
I go; and if you plead as well for them
In their poor praise he humbled. Such a man
He is, indeed; and living to kill thee. I prithee,
water against a gentlewoman's farthingale? didst
senses have but human conditions: his ceremonies
That knew'st the very bottom of my soul,
That Brutus leads me on.
There's no more faith in thee than in a stewed
variance. Antony will use his affection where it is:
Reports, the Volsces with two several powers
Thy lips rot off!
Right true it is, your son Lucentio here
You speedy helpers, that are substitutes
You do not hold the method to enforce
Is it so brave a lass?
for look you, Francis, your white canvas doublet
His dews fall every where.
That for some vicious mole of nature in them,
And therein show'd like enemies.
That the first face of neither, on the start,
but the ten meals I have lost, and I'll defy them
O royal knavery!--an exact command,
And with affection wondrous sensible
It appears not in this confession: there's not one
Had part in this fair maid; now heaven hath all,
have brought her into such a canaries as 'tis
I am one, sir, that comes to tell you your daughter
Lord Alexas, sweet Alexas, most any thing Alexas,
And strange it is,
Had you not lately an intent,--speak truly,--
What is't o'clock?
Harry Bolingbroke doth humbly kiss thy hand;
I say, O Caesar, Antony is dead.
Ay, that they do, my lord; Hercules and his load too.
Will crowd a feeble man almost to death:
'Tis vile, unless it may be quaintly order'd,
by the ears? make haste, lest mine be about your
out of all hooping!
recompense this long stay: feast your ears with the
Think upon patience. Pray you, gentlemen,
And all the fair effects of future hopes.
Is not much miss'd, but with his friends:
For more uneven and unwelcome news
Who is it?
That stands upon the swell at full of tide,
In their best fortunes strong; but want will perjure
So are we all.
He's with the king your father.
they have approved their virtues.
By ruffian lust should be contaminate!
How innocent she died; and if your love
that knows me to be in love; yet I am in love; but a
I prithee now, to bed.
Deserved this hearing--bid 'em send o' the instant
Dost thou not see my baby at my breast,
Death, traitor! nothing could have subdued nature
Shall send between the red rose and the white
Marriage is a matter of more worth
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
Captain Fluellen!
A prologue arm'd, but not in confidence
They would not pity me, yet plead I must;
Nor yet Saint Philip's daughters, were like thee.
Marry, sir, nose-painting, sleep, and
Who stock'd my servant? Regan, I have good hope
Forwearied in this action of swift speed,
God rest you merry, sir.
Without the which I am not to be won,
Not friended by by his wish, to your high person
O, they did urge it still unto the king!
'Twere better for you if it were known in counsel:
That you do love me, I am nothing jealous;
I'll follow, sir. But first, an't please the gods,
Is rusty grown: he bade me take a trumpet,
Now, for the love of Love and her soft hours,
I loved him as in honour he required,
DON
I tell thee, constable, my mistress wears his own hair.
Immediately to marry: she hath consented: Now, sir,
to me in the orchard.
derogation in't?
approaches; courtesies there to me,--
How camest thou so?
CURIO and Attendants retire
Bid them achieve me and then sell my bones.
Titus Lartius writes, they fought together, but
Mine eyes did sicken at the sight, and could not
Peace!
Seem'd Athens as a paradise to me:
Then take we down his load, and turn him off,
rushling, I warrant you, in silk and gold; and in
Be not amazed, there's nothing hid from me:
Kneel down, kneel down, and wonder.
Re-enter WARWICK and others, bearing GLOUCESTER'S body on a bed
Was ever son so rued a father's death?
OTHELLO retires
And, for an entrance to my entertainment,
A partial slander sought I to avoid,
I will, my liege.
Marry, it is your brother's right hand.
I will never mistrust my wife again till thou art
Virtuous and holy, be thou conqueror!
Evil-eyed unto you: you're my prisoner, but
To see the battle. Hector, whose patience
Yes, the fashion is the fashion.
Whereby hangs a tale, sir?
Are mere usurpers, tyrants and what's worse,
advantage of hope. I will indeed no longer endure
Stamp, rave, and fret, that I may sing and dance.
Myself disgraced, and the nobility
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
And that will well confirm it.
there's a man, niece! Hem! Brave Troilus! the
thy assailant is quick, skilful and deadly.
Is there not a double excellency in this?
Madam, this letter, and some certain jewels,
answer before him. If it be honest you have spoke,
Cry, Cock-a-diddle-dow.
I might have saved her; now she's gone for ever!
Ere I will see the crown so foul misplaced.
In troth, I think thou wouldst not.
You that choose not by the view,
I will frown as I pass by, and let them take it as
enemies; go to, then, I ask but this: can he that
What canst thou swear by now?
And thou thyself a shearman, art thou not?
Trumpets sound a parley
And Cupid grant all tongue-tied maidens here
By yea and nay, sir, then I swore in jest.
and a knave; which not-withstanding, thou shalt be
The pale companion is not for our pomp.
Your grace, that fed my country with your corn,
Would in so just a business shut his bosom
Why, Marcus, no man should be mad but I.
O, uncle, would some part of my young years
It is too hard a knot for me to untie!
Hark! I hear their drum.
But thou dost in thy passages of life
If that the Turkish fleet
Why, she was wash'd and cut and trimm'd, and 'twas
To see their day and them our fortune give:
The reason is, your spirits are attentive:
Wantest thou eyes at trial, madam?
And make us weep to hear your fate, fair creature,
Enter, with drum and colours, MARCIUS, TITUS  LARTIUS, Captains and Soldiers. To them a Messenger
Shows like a riotous inn: epicurism and lust
'be opposite with a kinsman, surly with servants;
Exeunt
Heard you confess you had the chain of him
But goes thy heart with this?
And son unto the king, who, heavens directing,
No, I warrant you; for a fools will shame it.
No, trust me, sir, nor I.
Immediately we do exile him hence:
Too little care of this! Take physic, pomp;
A poor unlearned virgin, when the schools,
With all my force, pursuit and policy.
That hath been breeder of these dire events.
Exeunt MERCUTIO and BENVOLIO
I must away to-day, before night come:
All furnish'd, all in arms;
at me; and he that hits me, let him be clapped on
Here's the midwife's name to't, one Mistress
Doth not the crown of England prove the king?
dog's death. Answer not; I am gone.
neither, 'twas one of these coronets;--and, as I told
[Within]  Have at you with another; that's--When?
Ay, by gar, and 'tis a boy: by gar, I'll raise all Windsor.
issues, being foolish, do not derogate.
My shroud of white, stuck all with yew,
Dull thing, I say so; he, that Caliban
Yes: 'tis Emilia. By and by. She's dead.
Exeunt
Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak:
To Mantua, where I hear he makes abode;
And I myself secure in grace and favour.
Yet Brutus says he was ambitious;
out heresy. I did converse this quondam day with
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,--
to-night, are those stars or suns upon it?
Look, here's thy love: my foot and her face see.
And so once more return and tell his grace.
'Tis like that Richmond with the rest shall down.
A crack, madam.
To vice you to't, that you have touch'd his queen
He spoke, and learnedly, for life; but all
touches us not: let the galled jade wince, our
Heart, once be stronger than thy continent,
The first-begotten and the lawful heir,
Stay, good my lords,
Exit
Ah, my good lord, I grieve at what I speak,
Which shall be shortly, single I'll resolve you,
And we will hear it.
SCENE I. Pentapolis. An open place by the sea-side.
That copest with death himself to scape from it:
But is this law?
This shows you are above,
Strumpet, thy words condemn thy brat and thee:
His mind so venomously, that burning shame
title, and I will fit her to it. Wonder not till
With franker spirit: therefore, as I am bound,
ACT II
Set on; and leave no ceremony out.
What a pretty thing man is when he goes in his
Two of her brothers were condemn'd to death,
And with a great heart heave away the storm:
And I myself see not the bottom of it.
keeping of wise people; for, indeed, there is no
small reflection of her wit.
'Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues;
I'll call him presently, my noble lord.
A warrant for his execution.
Since my becomings kill me, when they do not
But all the whole inheritance I give
Where shivering cold and sickness pines the clime;
Loseth men's hearts and leaves behind a stain
We will rather sleep than talk: we know what
A man is well holp up that trusts to you:
But on thy side I may not be too forward
To time and mortal custom. Yet my heart
I am sure, is sent for.
Now, noble Charmian, we'll dispatch indeed;
flowers o' the season
What fairies haunt this ground? A book? O rare one!
ACT V
Swear his thought over
Dissembling courtesy! How fine this tyrant
Of whom he's chief, with all the size that verity
Be't when she weaved the sleided silk
is his: I ha' told him on't, but I could ne'er get
This blue-eyed hag was hither brought with child
Of fruitful land, all which shall be her jointure.
Should well agree with our external parts?
Your heaviest censure.
Others would say 'Where, which is Bolingbroke?'
How lies their battle? know you on which side
How in our voiding lobby hast thou stood
I am disgraced, impeach'd and baffled here,
I, in probation of a sisterhood,
O paradox! Black is the badge of hell,
To be ungentle.
up of these men's bills.
No, like a bank for love to lie and play on;
think I keep thieves in my house? I have searched,
Exit
This man is Pyramus, if you would know;
Doth hurry from the fatal cannon's womb.
We'ld fight there too. But this it is; our foot
Set them into confounding odds, that beasts
No tongue! all eyes! be silent.
Even so suspicious is this tragedy.
diffidences, banishment of friends, dissipation
Is to mistake again; though indirect,
It is the lesser blot, modesty finds,
An excellent device! so, if any of the audience
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Tranio, be so, because Lucentio loves:
As nothing else could match.
'Item: She is proud.'
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE and ROBIN
If they have done this thing, my gracious lord--
cheerful look, a pleasing eye and a most noble
Could not have laid such terms upon his callat.
Why pratest thou to thyself and answer'st not?
To lose't or give't away were such perdition
You are come to see my daughter Anne?
Who else must be let blood, who else is rank:
'Laertes shall be king, Laertes king!'
To whom you are but as a form in wax
The senators of Athens greet thee, Timon.
I pluck this white rose with Plantagenet.
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Then, seeing 'twas he that made you to depose,
See how the morning opes her golden gates,
Here's a good world the while! Why who's so gross,
I pray you.
DON
Well have we pass'd and now repass'd the seas
Long since thy husband served me in my wars,
My heart is with your liking.
Will it eat me?
My hazards still have been your solace: and
be sworn: for my own part, I came in late. What
Whom I believe to be most strait in virtue,
Enter Soothsayer
I pray thee, good Camillo, be no more importunate:
Quick, dispatch, and send the head to Angelo.
Ever sprung; as sun and showers
And, if it be so far beyond his health,
I will be married to a wealthy widow,
foot, sometimes my portly belly.
Or be ye not henceforth call'd my children.
Enter ARTHUR
'Good morrow, fool,' quoth I. 'No, sir,' quoth he,
Mass, I cannot tell.
Ay, marry, is't:
star-blasting, and taking! Do poor Tom some
Here 'tis; commends it to your blessing.
Sir, pardon me in what I have to say:
Let us be jocund: will you troll the catch
I have heard
This is the fruit of whoring. Prithee, Emilia,
Enter MIRANDA; and PROSPERO at a distance, unseen
Because his purpose is not executed.
If they but hear perchance a trumpet sound,
Are motives of more fancy; and, in fine,
Who? the most exquisite Claudio?
If swift thought break it not, a swifter mean
Where the devil should this Romeo be?
Of stuff'd sufficiency: now from the oracle
This queen, worth all our mundane cost.
Desire his jewels and this other's house:
bestowed much on her; followed her with a doting
like the witch of Brentford.
PROLOGUE
For most it caught me, the celestial habits,
Immediately to leave you and be gone.
My lord!
Towards which advance the war.
Most grossly, by his own!
Your answer, sir.
Tyrants themselves wept when it was reported.
And in the greatness of my word, you die.
To make the world to laugh at me.
Nature dispenses with the deed so far
Nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
How intend you, practised?
By a vain prophecy of Nicholas Hopkins.
There's daggers in men's smiles: the near in blood,
Take or lend. Ho! No answer? Then I'll enter.
He thought 'twas witchcraft--but I am much to blame;
In dreadful war mayst thou be overcome,
Why, is not this better now than groaning for love?
Hath not in nature's mystery more science
Knock me down with 'em: cleave me to the girdle.
It were an honest action to say
This is a witness that I am thy son.
Exeunt
And credulous to false prints.
Towards their project. Then I beat my tabour;
This lady's husband here, this, do you see--
This shall be done, good father, presently.
But let this same be presently perform'd,
on one side.
Till I be gentle, stay thou for thy good morrow;
Till then I'll keep him dark and safely lock'd.
This is her honour!
How chance my daughter is not with you? Do not
One do I personate of Lord Timon's frame,
And on thy blade and dudgeon gouts of blood,
To tame a shrew and charm her chattering tongue.
O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
And that shall be the day, whene'er it lights,
Flourish. Exeunt
your several dwelling-places; and not to wear,
You nimble lightnings, dart your blinding flames
If you did wear a beard upon your chin,
above your eye?
But what of Cicero? shall we sound him?
A crowd of people; among them ARTEMIDORUS and the  Soothsayer. Flourish. Enter CAESAR, BRUTUS,  CASSIUS, CASCA, DECIUS BRUTUS, METELLUS CIMBER,  TREBONIUS, CINNA, ANTONY, LEPIDUS, POPILIUS, PUBLIUS, and others
Exit Murderer
But thou art neither like thy sire nor dam;
Very good, my lord.
Horns winded. Enter a Lord from hunting, with his train
For a taste:
Ask her forgiveness?
For Hamlet and the trifling of his favour,
In maiden meditation, fancy-free.
That Neptune's arms, who clippeth thee about,
Well, my good lord, I'll do't.
SCENE IV. Other plains in Gascony.
The figo for thee, then!
Exit FROTH
not: he there: that he: look you there.
If secret powers
We rest your hermits.
Buried some dear friend? Hath not else his eye
Heavens thank you for't! And now, I pray you, sir,
The language I have learn'd these forty years,
Marry, and it shall be done to-morrow morning, if I
Where is thy lustre now?
It shall be so, disdain they ne'er so much.
That will be damn'd for't; would I knew the villain,
But that the next heir should succeed and reign.
The strides they victors made: and now our cowards,
And some are yet ungotten and unborn
O, twice my father, twice am I thy son!
Then, if you speak, you must not show your face,
To make divorce of their incorporate league;
This is his second fit; he had one yesterday.
Which, like dumb mouths, do ope their ruby lips,
I must not believe you:
Peace be with you!
No quips now, Pistol! Indeed, I am in the waist two
Be touch'd at very heart.
Reads
Hail!
Some book there is that she desires to see.
I have to think so: if thou shouldst not be glad,
Or else my heart concealing it will break,
I will end here.
drive away the time till Falstaff come, I prithee,
Hop forty paces through the public street;
Say, I command her to come to me.
His highness' pleasure is to talk with him.
Exeunt from above
Which is the ladder to all high designs,
Not being Fortune, he's but Fortune's knave,
Besides, he hates me for my father Warwick;
That I am proud to hunt.
O, in the battle think on Buckingham,
apparent shame?
Great Kings of France and England! That I have labour'd,
Saltiers, and they have a dance which the wenches
To the possession of thy royal hand:
What will be said? what mockery will it be,
Deserves the extremest death.
Which does mend nature, change it rather, but
And give sweet passage to my sinful soul!
That one short minute gives me in her sight:
I would I were invisible, to catch the strong
TROILUS passes
Silence awhile. Robin, take off this head.
Lead me on.
I have bethought me of another fault.
That live and feed upon your majesty.
Doth from my senses take all feeling else
If zealous love should go in search of virtue,
What say you?
A weasel hath not such a deal of spleen
Were like a better way: those happy smilets,
And kiss your princely nephew, brothers both.
To him that worships thee!
Sir, it is the king's most sweet pleasure and
You hear my spell is lawful: do not shun her
Which gape and rub the elbow at the news
He calls for the tortures: what will you say
She prized it once.
His insolence draws folly from my lips;
Therefore, I say 'tis meet we all go forth
But leave it all to God. whither away?
Why, what is pomp, rule, reign, but earth and dust?
My sighing breast shall be thy funeral bell;
Reads
a vile phrase: but you shall hear. Thus:
The Turk, that two and fifty kingdoms hath,
A saucy stranger in his court to mart
Than dangerous to me: to Aufidius thus
since I forswore myself at primero. Well, if my
the owner.
Praised!
The griefs between ye: to forget them quite
With all thou canst find here. Now, the good gods
And yet methinks your grace hath not done well,
Tale-porter, and five or six honest wives that were
Be those the garments?
You shall not be my judge: for it is you
Upon my knees, what doth your speech import?
And, by that knot, looks proudly o'er the crown,
And free from other misbegotten hate,
of men's bodies? Well, a horn for my money, when
A combless cock, so Kate will be my hen.
As amply titled as Achilles is,
comes to fight.
Brandish your crystal tresses in the sky,
Full fourteen weeks before the course of time.
Ten thousand harms, more than the ills I know,
The clothiers all, not able to maintain
'Tis much. Servants, leave me and her alone.
with a kind of injunction drives me to these habits
May seem as shy, as grave, as just, as absolute
Because you are not sad. Now, by two-headed Janus,
Shall I speak for thee? shall I say 'tis so?
Then fare you well, for I will hence again:
To Verona.
When thou mayst tell thy tale a nearer way?
I do I know not what, and fear to find
Nor well, unless in mind: his letter there
That look too lofty in our commonwealth:
fortune! here comes the man: to him, father; for I
Then, tell me,
Flourish
RICHARD
Thy brother's love, our duty, and thy fault,
We shall your tawny ground with your red blood
I understand thee not.
I hear as good exclamation on your worship as of any
If they did kill thy husband, then be joyful
Desires your majesty to leave the field
Her mood will needs be pitied.
My soul hath her content so absolute
Will have it thus, that nothing but our lives
his demands to the point; only refer yourself to
Would run to these and these extremities:
His pettish lunes, his ebbs, his flows, as if
To do myself this reason and this right.
Was in the mouth of every sucking babe;
God give me joy to wear it! for my heart is
Enter FLAVIUS in a cloak, muffled
That, with the little godliness I have,
And at my lovely Tamora's entreats,
This is the pent-house under which Lorenzo
Can touch him further.
But have I not cause to weep?
It's one o'clock, boy, is't not?
That we, like savages, may worship it.
And when it breaks, I fear will issue thence
And slain in fight many of your enemies:
not Goliath with a weaver's beam; because I know
The hand-fast to her lord. I have given him that
you know, in his rages, and his furies, and his
That's yet unbruised: bring me but out at gate.
To the ground, and all the world shall mourn her.
SCENE VI. The same. The DUKE'S palace.
between eight and nine: I must carry her word
How shall I honour thee for this success?
The strong-wing'd Mercury should fetch thee up,
Alack, poor Richard! where rode he the whilst?
Mine honourable mistress.
What do you think me?
Uncertain life, and sure death.
Exeunt LADY CAPULET and Nurse
For such a one as leaves a gentleman,
The ostentation of our love, which, left unshown,
God save your grace! I do beseech your majesty,
Ah, gentle Clifford, kill me with thy sword,
And one man in his time plays many parts,
Thou art not so unkind
How unremoveable and fix'd he is
He cannot draw his power this fourteen days.
I'll geld 'em all; fourteen they shall not see,
Get you a place.
Proceed no straiter 'gainst our uncle Gloucester
Exeunt all but RICHMOND
But from her handmaid do return this answer:
A thousand times the worse, to want thy light.
Showing we would not spare heaven as we love it,
What we will do, we do upon command.
So opposite to marriage that she shunned
It draws toward supper in conclusion so.
Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
As thine is now, held with a brace of harlots.
After new fancies: she, dying, gave it me;
'Tis in grain, sir; 'twill endure wind and weather.
do you, man? the music likes you not.
Lord of York's armour.
For now he firmly takes me for Revenge;
I would not have you, lord, forget yourself,
Yet do our hearts wear Timon's livery;
The trumpets sound: stand close, the queen is coming.
Just the contrary; the better for thy friends.
Knavery's plain face is never seen tin used.
Now, like to whelps, we crying run away.
He should have struck, not spoke; or that these pirates,
Pedant looks out of the window
How now, my pretty knave! how dost thou?
Hear nothing from him.
And shrewd and froward, so beyond all measure
Ay, madam.
That to Laertes I forgot myself;
Have I, thy schoolmaster, made thee more profit
Think but this, and all is mended,
No Valentine, if Silvia have forsworn me.
Upon my death the French can little boast;
And three examples of the like have been
Not so fair, boy, as well-favoured.
[Sings]
The choice and master spirits of this age.
That therefore I have forged, or am not able
For tinctures, stains, relics and cognizance.
Nor let no comforter delight mine ear
Whom thus we stray to find, and the sea mocks
He hath.
I rather tell thee what is to be fear'd
trick of it?
In nature there's no blemish but the mind;
Whose smile and frown, like to Achilles' spear,
Whilst you have fed upon my signories,
Which can pursue the offender. How dost, my lord?
Now will I look to his remuneration. Remuneration!
And take my ministers along with me.
With this dead-killing news!
speak for himself.
Now, what admittance, lord?
as a doornail, I pray God I may never eat grass more.
Made me exchange my state with Tranio,
Do that good mischief which may make this island
Sir,
Than customary bounty can enforce you.
I must obey.
He'ld make an end of thy posterity.
To lock such rascal counters from his friends,
Groped I to find out them; had my desire.
I look'd upon her with a soldier's eye,
to be fat be to be hated, then Pharaoh's lean kine
That's too long for a play.
I'll help thee: come, lend me thy hand.
Is at last gasp: return he cannot, nor
Fie, fie! what, are you mad?
SCENE I. A street before a Priory.
Pistol, did you pick Master Slender's purse?
Will I first work: he's for his master,
And wilt thou have me?
That she should feel the smart of this? The cardinal
If this be so, why blame you me to love you?
How would he look, to see his work so noble
Hav e wander'd with our traversed arms and breathed
Of Mantua.
But weary for the staleness.
To say my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company,
Did not thy hue bewray whose brat thou art,
To do this is within the compass of man's wit: and
Too great oppression for a tender thing.
But that is not the question: the question is
Is coming towards me, and my inward soul
Go, girl, seek happy nights to happy days.
I had rather walk here, I thank you. I bruised
You, sir, more knave than fool, after your master.
why, thou knowest I am as valiant as Hercules: but
Leaps into the grave
Re-enter MENENIUS, with BRUTUS and SICINIUS
your tongues, and not a word more.
Is marching hitherward in proud array,
Whiles the eye of man did woo me,
You are well favour'd, and your looks foreshow
This Antioch, then, Antiochus the Great
Enter a Messenger that meets YORK. Enter YORK with trumpet and many Soldiers
There's no remedy;
you shall tell me where in the forest you live.
Lords of the wide world and wild watery seas,
Should not upbraid our course. For all the rest,
And process of this time, you can report,
Here's one to a very doleful tune, how a usurer's
When it comes so smoothly off, so obscenely, as it
For do we must what force will have us do.
Madam, good even to your ladyship.
Except, O signieur, thou do give to me
And fled he is upon this villany.
complain of good breeding or comes of a very dull kindred.
Enter a Messenger
My liege, this haste was hot in question,
attentiveness wounded his daughter; till, from one
with a piece of your performance. Nell, he is full
armed and gone ere ye came to Ilium? Helen was not
Continue where he is: to shift his being
SONG
Your grace mistakes; only to be brief
I wish I could be made so many men,
Warm and new kill'd.
does me this wrong. Terms! names! Amaimon sounds
To fast, to study, and to see no woman;
As, to seek through the regions of the earth
Know of me then, for now I speak to some purpose,
Nothing at all: it is a highwrought flood;
one Deformed: they say be wears a key in his ear and
Doth cloud my joys with danger and with sorrow.
Have moved his highness to commit me now.
[Aside]  Heaven, that I had thy head! he has found
I thank you.--By yond bush?--Pray, how far thither?
May be the devil: and the devil hath power
What simpleness is this! I come, I come!
Or else you may return without your money.
Yet now they fright me. There is one within,
Most like a gentleman.
Let it appear so; make your vaunting true,
hand-saw--ecce signum! I never dealt better since
Here in Verona, ladies of esteem,
Hath look'd upon my passes. Then, good prince,
'Long all of Somerset and his delay.
Now, presently: bid them come forth and hear me,
Since doubling things go ill often hurts more
foul the clearness of our deservings, when of
For whilst I think I am thy married wife
To the good of your most sacred person and
bacons, on! What, ye knaves! young men must live.
Which your disease requires.
one of my friends.
I tell you, 'twill sound harshly in her ears.
Impatiently I burn with thy desire;
Should have been cherish'd by her child-like duty,
DON
Now, sir, to you, that were so hot at sea,
cudgel you.
sir.
And, madam, you must call him Rutland now:
touch of modesty, that you will not extort from me
Exeunt
away the performance: therefore, much drink
Ay, and have been so any time these four hours.
Peace, peace, Iras!
others, to taste their valour: belike this is a man
Why they are so, but, like to village-curs,
Where slept our scouts, or how are they seduced,
I never saw him sad.
Why, I could wish him to be my master, or rather, my mistress.
Cry: 'St. George,' 'A Talbot.'
THE SONG.
How may likeness made in crimes,
Now is my turn to speak. Behold this child:
In their fair cheeks, my lord; then we shall have 'em
yourself good and not to grace me. Believe then, if
myself honourable! how unluckily it happened, that I
Why, then, three-farthing worth of silk.
If it could so roar to me: I cut off's head;
Only about her coronation.
Not much employment for you: you understand me?
It is the humane way: the other course
henceforward it shall be treason for any that calls
I fear'd to show my father Julia's letter,
And let the nurse this night sit up with you;
A most high miracle!
What, what, what? let's partake.
I'll sort some other time to visit you.
Ay, just; perpetual durance, a restraint,
of two dog-apes, and when a man thanks me heartily,
To CLEOPATRA
Stand in their ancient strength.
Tell me, how fares our loving mother?
And with hot irons must I burn them out.
and so near will I be,
is beaten black and blue, that you cannot see a
If you do fight against your country's foes,
Although thy husband may be Menelaus;
A carbuncle entire, as big as thou art,
Ye're long about it.
Beshrew thee, cousin, which didst lead me forth
Dost thou in conscience think,--tell me, Emilia,--
But wise men, folly-fall'n, quite taint their wit.
Let me deserve so ill as you, and make me
What is 't o'clock?
Let me thy servant and not sovereign be:
having received wrong by some person, is at most
And, like ambitious Sylla, overgorged
Gallants, lads, boys, hearts of gold, all the titles
'The fairest, sweet'st, and best lies here,
Doth win immortal fame.
I find the people strangely fantasied;
Tom will make them weep and wail:
Some of those seven are dried by nature's course,
the world bitter to the best of our times; keeps
How does your patient, doctor?
The Duke of Somerset is in the Tower.
Nor shall appear in Sicilia.
All thy tediousness on me, ah?
How, sir?
Some bear out SLY. A trumpet sounds
I'll lock thy heaven from thee.
And chattering pies in dismal discords sung.
Is general woe.
of my power, and so stand aloof for more serious
How I have loved my king and commonweal:
are gone: crows and daws, crows and daws! I had
Be measured or confined.
let not my letter.
To whom you swore a secret pilgrimage,
For your sweet music this last night: I do
My fancy to your eyes: when I consider
Sun that warms you here shall shine on me;
Run away with the cozeners; for so soon as I came
Let all the rest give place.
That Ancus Marcius, Numa's daughter's son,
To make us wonder'd at in time to come.
Unless, by not so doing, our good city
ladies most desirous of admittance.
Stays in his course and plays the alchemist,
As had she studied to misuse me so.
Of speaking first. Sweet, bid me hold my tongue,
And, for I should not deal in her soft laws,
No.
Their harness studded all with gold and pearl.
The purpose is perspicuous even as substance,
And she to him, to stay him not too long,
It is that fery person for all the orld, as just as
And, like a rat without a tail,
Being in night, all this is but a dream,
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
the flatterer. Heavens, that I were a lord!
Why, fool?
For, you trow, nuncle,
Shall best instruct you, measure me; and so
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Nature hath meal and bran, contempt and grace.
Though they did change me to the meanest bird
My lord?
And hung their rotten coffins up in chains,
Why, see you not?
But puts it off to a compell'd restraint;
Dies
him. It is now high suppertime, and the night grows
thus near, that, should she fancy, it should be one
from whence he was whipped for getting the shrieve's
And reason coldly of your grievances,
Exit
But the main grief springs from the loss
Why then I suck my teeth and catechise
Fear me not, sweet lord;
Not so, gentle beast:
Resign it then and leave thine insolence.
Fellow, I know thee.
out of the 'Hundred Merry Tales:'--well this was
To see us here unarm'd: I have a woman's longing,
Like heralds 'twixt two dreadful battles set:
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy,
Give me your pardon, sir: I've done you wrong;
Who would be thence that has the benefit of access?
Methinks thou art more honest now than wise;
and give out
and so I thank you for your good counsel. Come, my
A hundred then.
But out upon this half-faced fellowship!
As bending angels; that's their fame in peace:
And on old Hiems' thin and icy crown
For 'tis a throne where honour may be crown'd
Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep;
But that you do not love me.
Propose the oath, my lord.
Nor never by advised purpose meet
Approved so to your majesty, may plead
Alas, my lord,
Exit. Knocking within
Not Romeo, prince, he was Mercutio's friend;
Let him be call'd for.
Made to the queen, to call back her appeal
Therefore I do it; and I make no doubt
Of Cneius Pompey's; besides what hotter hours,
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
Hark, Greek: as much as I do Cressid love,
me die, for I have lived long enough: this is the
ass; though it be not written down, yet forget not
And banished I am, if but from thee.
Is stopp'd; the very source of it is stopp'd.
This night to play before him.
Now, by my hood, a Gentile and no Jew.
Why does the drum come hither?
No, I'll not rear
argument in;
Or else reproach be Talbot's greatest fame!
I never heard a passion so confused,
No; I eat not lords.
And the strong course of my authority
How often he had met you, sword to sword;
With men like men of inconstancy.
Your mother was most true to wedlock, prince;
Gold? yellow, glittering, precious gold? No, gods,
Let it alone, thou fool; it is but trash.
How many gentlemen have you lost in this action?
You should have ta'en the advantage of his choler
I beseech you, sir,
She came from Libya.
During the life, let us not wrong it dead.
On greatness' favour dream as I have done,
That in your knowledge may by me be done,
What meanest thou by that, Malvolio?
Forbear, forbear, I say! it is my lord the duke.
her, woo her, assail her.
The pleasure that some fathers feed upon,
within these two hours; and so, come in when ye will.
It is his hand, my lord; but I hope his heart is
My lord hath interest in them, I will keep them
Grapples you to the heart and love of us,
Send for the lady to the Sagittary,
Cousin, thou wert not wont to be so dull:
moves like an engine, and the ground shrinks before
Where is this king? Sirs, stand you all without.
I have them ready.
And still keep eyes upon her. So, good night:
good apothecary, to sweeten my imagination:
Can we, with manners, ask what was the difference?
Or like to men proud of destruction
My charity is outrage, life my shame
By him that shall succeed.
But you have done more miracles than I;
Without leave-taking? I pray you,
ambition. Who is here so base that would be a
Enter VALENTINE
Hath willingly departed with a part,
Orsino, noble sir,
With three-fold love I wish you all these three.
I'll see thee hang'd on Sunday first.
That swiftest wing of recompense is slow
Most sweet voices!
Besides, our hands are hard.
In your supposing once more put your sight
loquitur; a soul feminine saluteth us.
Nay, then you lie: it is the blessed sun.
But when I came, some minute ere the time
I'll show thee some attires, and have thy counsel
O for a Muse of fire, that would ascend
As place Duke Humphrey for the king's protector?
Therefore, come back.
Pardon me, God, I knew not what I did!
Pompey doth this day laugh away his fortune.
DON
Who with her head nimble in threats approach'd
All the best men are ours; for 'tis ill hap,
down, an a' were lustier than he is, and twenty such
SCENE I:
Why, Paris hath colour enough.
I have a head, sir, that will find out logs,
Must be their schoolmasters. Shut up your doors:
the knaves, you need not to fear the bawds.
Who wears no honesty. Such smiling rogues as these,
And were I any thing but what I am,
And would my father had left me no more!
Exit
Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous.
Your pardon, sir; for this
Think upon Vaughan, and, with guilty fear,
Is he a lamb? his skin is surely lent him,
This is Signior Antonio.
But dead they are, and devilish slave, by thee.
Which presently they read: on whose contents,
Bring thou the master to the citadel;
But that I know love is begun by time;
So musical a discord, such sweet thunder.
Steep'd in the colours of their trade, their daggers
To a most noble judge, the king my master.
My lord, I hear.
whore-masterly villain, with the sleeve, back to the
Is all unknown to me, my gracious lady.
Thou shouldst not bear from me a Greekish member
'Ask me no reason why I love you; for though
There's reason he should be displeased at it.
will not have me, choose:' he hears merry tales and
knowest me! Is it two days ago since I tripped up
A substitute shines brightly as a king
Confirm it so! Confounded be your strife!
Enter DEMETRIUS, HELENA, following him
With drinking healths to my niece: I'll drink to
Therein do men from children nothing differ.
Whilst, with no softer cushion than the flint,
Hath in her more destruction than thy sword,
Come, and get thee a sword, though made of a lath;
O lady Fortune,
Switch and spurs, switch and spurs; or I'll cry a match.
O king Stephano! O peer! O worthy Stephano! look
Worse than a theft, no less than a traducement,
Gracing the scroll that tells of this war's loss
and a throng! To your manor of Pickt-hatch! Go.
How know'st thou this?
Nor when thy warlike father, like a child,
Timon in this should pay more than he owes:
The royal fool thou copest with,--
With open outcry toward our monument.
sir, was Yorick's skull, the king's jester.
May show her duty and make known her love?'
That ministers thine own death if I die.
I think that thou art just and think thou art not.
Servant!
To the Spirits
My lord, fair Helen told me of their stealth,
Your power and your command is taken off,
Before the time I did Lysander see,
Collars of SS.
That owes two buckets, filling one another,
Enter LUCULLUS
he abides.
A softly-sprighted man, is he not?
Art thou against us, Duke of Exeter?
Twice saying 'pardon' doth not pardon twain,
It likes us well; young princes, close your hands.
given her his monumental ring, and thinks himself
Exeunt Duke and his train
humbly give you leave to depart; and if a merry
I do not know what witchcraft's in him, but
He shall be lord of lady Imogen,
You cannot guess wherefore the Welshman comes.
The edge of war, like an ill-sheathed knife,
thou wilt have none,--
Yet I express to you a mother's care:
Presenteth Moonshine; for, if you will know,
Will 't hold? will 't hold?
You are my father too, and did relieve me,
Good wits will be jangling; but, gentles, agree:
The imaginary relish is so sweet
To whom I am subdued, are but light to me,
I fear neither sword nor fire.
Enter, from one side, LUCIUS, IACHIMO, and  the Roman Army: from the other side, the  British Army; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS following,  like a poor soldier. They march over and go  out. Then enter again, in skirmish, IACHIMO  and POSTHUMUS LEONATUS he vanquisheth and disarmeth IACHIMO, and then leaves him
And will they undertake to do me good?
And men have lost their reason. Bear with me;
What I have spoke: but farewell compliment!
To whom?
Do not plunge thyself too far in anger, lest thou
But then more 'why?' why have they dared to march
Soft! take me with you, take me with you, wife.
She shall not long continue love to him.
the mart; let him look to his bond: he was wont to
Enter LEONTES, Lords, and Officers
Whoever bound him, I will loose his bonds
This talking lord can lay upon my credit,
And arms her with the boldness of a wife
Of all the faults beneath the heavens, the gods
Thy adversary's wife doth pray for thee.
Fasten'd ourselves at either end the mast;
To her will we to dinner.
And I seeing this came thence for very shame;
the hangman boys in the market-place: and then I
But in mistaking.
Give us kind keepers, heavens! What were these?
parrot, and yet the son of a woman! His industry is
And, for thy humour, I will stay at home.
Exit
though I am not bookish, yet I can read
to meddle or make. You may be gone; it is not good
Which I shall send you written, be assured,
Every good servant does not all commands:
For flattery is the bellows blows up sin;
When she for thy repeal was suppliant,
you; yet I should bear no cross if I did bear you,
O God, I could be bounded in a nut shell and count
praised,--to the court I'll knock her back, foot
That are misled upon your cousin's part;
Lay breath so bitter on your bitter foe.
Talk us to silence.
'Now the king dunks to Hamlet.' Come, begin:
O, gentlemen, see, see! dead Henry's wounds
How, sir, how!
Why, then let's home again. Come, sirrah, let's away.
It shall be so: I'll send her to my house,
This fester'd joint cut off, the rest rest sound;
This love feel I, that feel no love in this.
Nay, in all confidence, he's not for Rhodes.
'No, sir,' says question, 'I, sweet sir, at yours:'
Sir, I propose not merely to myself
Intends to appear before the people, hoping
Signior Love.
If it be fond, call it a woman's fear;
Of contumelious, beastly, mad-brain'd war,
Now, what says the world
Good friends, sweet friends, let me not stir you up
If ever danger do environ thee,
Would I were fairly out on't!
Are wolvish, bloody, starved and ravenous.
Kneel not, gentle Portia.
James Tyrrel, and your most obedient subject.
ACT II
I'll be revenged:
in the pie, for then the man's date's out.
Were almost like a sharp-quill'd porpentine;
Made senseless things begin to do them wrong;
She questionless with her sweet harmony
Look, Lucius, here's the book I sought for so;
Till Warwick or himself be quite suppress'd.
'Tis full three months since I did see him last;
Rebellion lay in his way, and he found it.
Seems bruited. Let me find him, fortune!
Lo you, here she comes! This is her very guise;
Either to get the town again or die:
An if your highness knew my heart, you were.
And entrails feed the sacrificing fire,
Heaven, from thy endless goodness, send prosperous
utters them as he had eaten ballads and all men's
Fairer than tongue can name thee, let me have
valiant Jack Falstaff, and therefore more valiant,
And leave eighteen. Alas, poor princess,
And, to kill the marvel,
O, let my sovereign turn away his face
very rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who
Ye have angels' faces, but heaven knows your hearts.
'Tis but an hour ago since it was nine,
Did you but know the city's usuries
Nay, I'll fit you,
And bowl'd to death with turnips!
And, for thou wast a spirit too delicate
What now ensues, to the judgment of your eye
I will do so. Signior Fabian, stay you by this
Is there not my father, my uncle and myself? lord
Must make perforce an universal prey,
Alexander Iden, that's my name;
Celestial as thou art, O, pardon, love, this wrong,
And, good my Lord of Somerset, unite
If not, Signior Gremio:
limed her; but it is Jove's doing, and Jove make me
What one, my lord?
What was his answer?
how infinite in faculty! in form and moving how
Did you perceive how he laughed at his vice?
All sects, all ages smack of this vice; and he
And never mount to trouble you again.
Where many of the best respect in Rome,
'Item: She hath more hair than wit, and more faults
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
and, by this hand, she falls me thus about my neck--
Now I must
Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth.
There lie thy part.
I know not what to do: I would to God,
Hath almost ended his life's history:
Enter Chorus
Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must
Sir, amen.
Exit
Too well, too well.
No, truly; it is more than manners will:
And all their ministers attend on him.
But mine I am sure thou art, whoe'er thou be,
A thing stuck on with oaths upon your finger
Get thee gone, but do it.
Quite vanquish'd him: then burst his mighty heart;
My mind was never yet more mercenary.
To prove, by wit, worth in simplicity.
How now! what's the matter? who was here?
The bottom of your purpose.
Then you should hate Rome, as he does. Can you,
As I do thee.--Something too much of this.--
For shame, my liege, make them your precedent!
Exeunt
O, that's an honest fellow. Do not doubt, Cassio,
because they say, ''Od's nouns.'
[Aside]  He was an honest man, and a good
SCENE VIII. A plain near Actium.
Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but this bird
Offering to kiss her
O, doubt not that;
[Within]  Away, you rogue, away! I am sleepy.
Why, tis no matter, man; if they did hear,
Plies Desdemona to repair his fortunes
swine-keeping, from eating draff and husks. A mad
To have the due and forfeit of my bond:
But your request shall make me let it pass.
There was, mine host, an old fat woman even now with
As ignorant as dirt! thou hast done a deed--
Beat loud the tabourines, let the trumpets blow,
What ever have been thought on in this state,
Nay, how will you do for a husband?
And breed a kind of question in our cause;
you.
not such a name. Page is an ass, a secure ass: he
The plebeians have got your fellow-tribune
are full of deceits?
And general honour.
Good my lord!
Come with thy two-hand sword.
God save you, brother.
but that our wits are so diversely coloured: and
was never lost in my house before.
Live, Brutus! live, live!
Come, come, you paraquito, answer me
fool no where but in's own house. Farewell.
Was once superfluous: you were crown'd before,
I must be ripp'd:--to pieces with me!--O,
Enter HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, and Ladies
Your mistress' name?
Let them set on at once; for I perceive
If further yet you will be satisfied,
I have lived fourscore years and upward; I never
The battle continues; the Britons fly; CYMBELINE is  taken: then enter, to his rescue, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS
soldier keep his oath?
Heaven keep that monster from Othello's mind!
The Senators descend, and open the gates
I must be brief, lest resolution drop
Dispersed are the glories it included.
Stay; come not in.
And cried, in fainting, upon Rosalind.
Which nature loathes--take thou the destined tenth,
He shall be executed presently.
Dies
Should be in them to give.
so great, Hortensio, but we may blow our nails
after: a pestilent complete knave; and the woman
Were gracious in the eyes of royal Rome,
Believe me, sir, had I such venture forth,
Mark you this, people?
Thy stomach, pleasure and thy golden sleep?
No.
king's sake, he were living! I think it would be
Good Sir John, I sue for yours: not to charge you;
'Twas by rebellion against his king.
I do repent: but heaven hath pleased it so,
Happier the man, whom favourable stars
And fought so long, till that his thighs with darts
a thousand: he had some feeling of the sport: he
Or wear it on my sword, yet my poor country
Now, infidel, I have you on the hip.
Thou shouldst have been, and shielded him
nunnery, go: farewell. Or, if thou wilt needs
Save when command to your dismission tends,
fiend, who, saving your reverence, is the devil
And when I am on horseback, I will swear
I pray thee, bear my former answer back:
It is supposed, the fair creature died;
My voice is ragged: I know I cannot please you.
Water with berries in't, and teach me how
Praise her but for this her without-door form,
And set abroad new business for you all?
What shall I do?
It must be shortly known to him from England
Beauties no richer than rich taffeta.
Swelter'd venom sleeping got,
and forbid him to wear it. I will only be bold
They'll go or come: if so, be patient, sister.
Which might appal the devil.
Anon.
Which likes me better than to wish us one.
These growing feathers pluck'd from Caesar's wing
Be as thou wast wont to be;
And give them burial as beseems their worth.
O, then began the tempest to my soul,
Well, seeing gentle words will not prevail,
Marry, that 'marry' is the very theme
You put me off with limber vows; but I,
For obtaining of suits?
To sin in loving virtue: never could the strumpet,
daughter unto Reignier King of Naples, Sicilia and
Why,
That every day with parle encounter me,
Let's step into the shadow of these trees.
Thy followers of repentance; that their souls
My lord, will't please you to fall to?
That weep'st to see me triumph? Ay, my dear,
And keep your mind, till you return to us,
Saving your mincing, the capacity
Enter DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO and MOTH
I smell the trick on't.
I must offend before I be attainted;
It is shaped, sir, like itself; and it is as broad
The trumpets, sackbuts, psalteries and fifes,
Good heart, and, i' faith, I will tell her as much:
Christendom. If thou hadst been born blind, thou
Find thou the means, and I'll find such a man.
For by that name as oft as Lancaster
By so much shall I falsify men's hopes;
measure, full of state and ancientry; and then comes
She shall be prized; but that you say 'be't so,'
Why then, can one desire too much of a good thing?
After the slaughter of so many peers,
[Aside to ISABELLA]  You had marr'd all else.
Is valiant, and dejected; and, by starts,
I will be angry: what hast thou to do?
To prison, till fit time
They have placed their men of trust?
Injurious duke, that threatest where's no cause.
Brother, adieu: good fortune come to thee!
And be avenged on cursed Tamora.
Remembering how I love thy company.
What should we speak of
wooed Margaret, the Lady Hero's gentlewoman, by the
What may be sworn by, both divine and human,
put the moon in his pocket, we will pay him tribute
Next, your son gone; and he most violent author
But self-affrighted tremble at his sin.
Have in our armours watch'd the winter's night,
Kingdoms and provinces.
Faith, and so it did.
The worthy fellow is our general: he's the rock, the
thou a bear, thou wouldst be killed by the horse:
More sharp than this is.
she will find the error of her choice: she must
In storm perpetual, could not move the gods
I have no more sons of the royal blood
Hear a little further
SCENE II. Venice. A street.
Shylock is my name.
Descended of so many royal kings.
Jupiter descends in thunder and lightning, sitting  upon an eagle: he throws a thunderbolt. The Apparitions fall on their knees
Will not you?
To make a bastard and a slave of me!
know to be his character, the majesty of the
That robb'd Andronicus of his good hand;
Before you visit him, to make inquire
He says thou told'st him that his wife was false:
Spurr'd, gall'd and tired by jouncing Bolingbroke.
SCENE V. The same. A street near the gate.
I may not, madam:
courtesy. I think scorn to sigh: methinks I should
What, with my tongue in your tail? nay, come again,
In workmanship and value; which I wonder'd
Your hostages I have, so have you mine;
Marian, I say! a stoup of wine!
Command me any service to her thither?
To this their late escape.
How prove you that, in the great heap of your
Your virtue is my privilege: for that
O woful day, O woful day!
These letters come from your father.
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts,
Which fronted mine own peace. As for my wife,
My husband, then?
She'll home to her father: and provide me presently
Did famine follow; whom thou fought'st against,
Enter KING LEAR and Fool
Men's natures wrangle with inferior things,
Where, in a frenzy, in my master's garments,
Because she was enforced, stain'd, and deflower'd?
That I will speak to thee: I'll call thee Hamlet,
It is the east, and Juliet is the sun.
That is the way to make her scorn you still.
And hemm'd about with grim destruction:
Why, 'some are born great, some achieve greatness,
And earns a place i' the story.
This Cressida in Troy? Had she no lover there
If you'll back to the court--
hearts, what ado here is to bring you together!
And something to be done immediately.
And more diversity of sounds, all horrible,
And since you do profess to be a suitor,
Ne'er may he live to see a sunshine day,
In troth, there's wondrous things spoke of him.
Exeunt
Since once I sat upon a promontory,
Mine shall not do his Julia so much wrong.
Oft does them by the weakest minister:
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The ghostly father now hath done
Caesar? Why, he's the Jupiter of men.
That with the very shaking of their chains
open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is
And follow unacquainted colours here?
For still her cheeks possess the same
O monstrous! eleven buckram men grown out of two!
Enter a Gentlewoman
What says the fellow there? Call the clotpoll back.
First, it was usual with him, every day
Becomes not Titus' brother: get thee gone:
What men are you?
Marry. sir, by many a wind-instrument that I know.
Nothing, but our undertakings; when we vow to weep
Why, this is your own folly. Did not I tell you how
pretence of danger.
Moonshine and Lion are left to bury the dead.
it in a kind of jollity.
Lord Hastings, you and he are near in love.
Enter CLEOPATRA and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
Our means will make us means.
By revolution lowering, does become
Ay, dread queen.
No, be assured you shall not find me, daughter,
Here are the keys, there sits the duke asleep:
Above the reach or compass of thy thought?
SCENE IV. A hall in Black-Friars.
Disguise fair nature with hard-favour'd rage;
Art thou good at these kickshawses, knight?
And both shall cease, without your remedy.
let him sleep till day. I'll to the court in the
Why, she hath a face of her own.
As were our England in reversion his,
And I have bred her at my dearest cost
Normans, but bastard Normans, Norman bastards!
Thanks to your majesty.
Call up her father,
'Tis full of thy foul wrongs.
Wherein thy counsel and consent is wanting.
To let my tongue excuse all. What was purposed
[Reads]  'So it is,'--
your town, and things called whips?
Were brass impregnable, and humour'd thus
Cough, or cry 'hem,' if any body come:
Gentle my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks;
Why, how now, monsieur! what a life is this,
Fear me not:
You must not stay here longer, your dismission
In that respect, then, like a loving child,
Be any further moved. What you have said
According as your ladyship desired,
For this popp'd Paris in his hardiment,
'Tis just:
Signior Petruchio, fie! you are to blame.
And let him learn to know, when maidens sue,
But what see I? No Thisby do I see.
And, were they but attired in grave weeds,
O, some authority how to proceed;
Only shape thou thy silence to my wit.
Thieves are not judged but they are by to hear,
As little by such toys as may be possible.
Popp'd in between the election and my hopes,
The present money to discharge the Jew,
Was set in worse than gold. They have in England
Kisses the base ground with obedient breast?
I am much bound to you.
Upon old Brutus' statue: all this done,
Right; as 'twere, a man assured of a--
What men?
the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet, humour
For which the pardoner himself is in.
shall lose all the sight.
Want no Mistress Ford, Master Brook; you shall want
A very even way, but no such friend.
Wherein thou seest me mask'd; for thy revenge
Thence to be wrench'd with an unlineal hand,
And fright him there? and make him tremble there?
your worship, and my suit is--
What one, i' faith?
Canker'd with peace, to part your canker'd hate:
He will hear none: he hath evermore had the liberty
O, let the vile world end,
Note, if your lady strain his entertainment
A mankind witch! Hence with her, out o' door:
The words expressly are 'a pound of flesh:'
Now seeming sweet convert to bitter gall.
If I can cheque my erring love, I will;
it? dispense with trifles; what is it?
at the dearest chandler's in Europe. I have
Leave us to ourselves; and make yourself some comfort
O, never will I trust to speeches penn'd,
Be you quiet, monster. Mistress line,
Cousins, God give you joy!
Yet am I Suffolk and the cardinal's broker.
Would stretch thy spirits up into the air:
Till that a capable and wide revenge
And trouble not the peace.
Our hearts you see not; they are pitiful;
Were more than you expect, or more than's fit,
Men must learn now with pity to dispense;
That e'er I watch'd and the most heaviest.
Give me the gown. Where is thy instrument?
What's your name?
Of none but him; and swears he was carried out, the
That's more
O Lord, I would it had been two!
Let me be used with honour: strew me over
Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. Have
And honourable carriage,
Which with sweet water nightly I will dew,
Varro's
are they that hear their detractions and can put
Is colder than that theme, 'She had not been,
But in the estimation of a hair,
Fortune in favour makes him lag behind.
the right arched beauty of the brow that becomes the
To him or our authorities. For an end,
Amen, amen! Mount, chevaliers! to arms!
That were I ta'en here it would scarce be answer'd.
Hath she to change our loves. Beseech you, sir,
Re-enter FALSTAFF in woman's clothes, and MISTRESS PAGE
My heart is ever at your service, my lord.
Say that upon the altar of her beauty
I had rather hear Lady, my brach, howl in Irish.
It yet hath felt no age nor known no sorrow.
And wring the awful sceptre from his fist,
SCENE I. Britain. The garden of Cymbeline's palace.
He's coming hither: now, i' the night, i' the haste,
Rosalind: if I could meet that fancy-monger I would
Fie, fie, fie!
Is my poor heart for a kinsman vex'd.
Re-enter Thisbe
I told him of myself; which was as much
With all good grace to grace a gentleman.
Come, kiss; and let us part.
Indeed the top of admiration! worth
You may say it, but not swear it.
Have stoop'd my neck under your injuries,
What Troy means fairly shall be spoke aloud.
sir, will show whereuntil it doth amount: for mine
thee, I bid thy master cut out the gown; but I did
though? C ourage! As horns are odious, they are
Heaven give you many, many merry days!
Thus pour the stars down plagues for perjury.
And then she's yours.
And call me father? better burn it now
They have here propertied me; keep me in darkness,
That may be wish'd for.
With any terms of zeal, wanted the modesty
Will I set up my everlasting rest,
Our enemies have beat us to the pit:
Best in all Athens: thou'rt, indeed, the best;
devils' additions, the names of fiends: but
I do; and charge you in the duke's name to obey me.
Hang thyself!
SCENE III. The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.
What's that?
Pay him six thousand, and deface the bond;
About him, fairies; sing a scornful rhyme;
I am combined by a sacred vow
Here to this place, i' the open air, before
Let me be no assistant for a state,
What he will do: but if he will not yield,
His brandish'd sword did blind men with his beams:
See, here's to Jove, and this to Mercury;
He shall not pass you. Twice have the trumpets sounded;
Why, then, dame Margaret was ne'er thy joy.
They stand, and would have parley.
By her is poisoned; she hath confess'd it.
Plantagenet, of thee and these thy sons,
Katharine our queen, before the primest creature
It is the Prince of Wales that threatens thee;
SCENE III. The same. The Forum.
And you, my lords, methinks you do not well
And what I spake, I spake it to my face.
'Fore God, his grace is bold, to trust these traitors.
I find it still, when I have list to sleep:
But little vantage shall I reap thereby;
I will ask Antony. Sir, sir, thou art so leaky,
That, with his sons, a terror to our foes,
Our very loving sister, well be-met.
The cause why I have brought this army hither
A virtuous and a Christian-like conclusion,
For how I firmly am resolved you know;
Alas the day! good heart, that was not her fault:
If that our noble father be alive?
Their mutinies and revolts, wherein they show'd
The northern lords that have forsworn thy colours
That no supporter but the huge firm earth
Old Siward, with ten thousand warlike men,
Do all men kill the things they do not love?
And bid mine eyes be packing with my heart
I could give better comfort than you do.
To lay aside life-harming heaviness
Of Bolingbroke, covering your fearful land
ACT III
The King of Scots; whom she did send to France,
''Tis right:' quoth he; 'thus misery doth part
Good sir, be not offended.
And I will call him to so strict account,
Le Roy! a Cornish name: art thou of Cornish crew?
Then lend the eye a terrible aspect;
And hold thee to my heart.
Exit
And that I'll prove on better men than Somerset,
Nor tears nor prayers shall purchase out abuses:
Ever since you loved her.
It shall be Romeo, whom you know I hate,
For Gloucester's dukedom is too ominous.
Your own is yours, and I am yours, and all.
Neglected my sworn duty in that case.
Your own present folly and her passing deformity:
With less allegiance in it! Men that make
Unmuffles CLAUDIO
You must have patience, madam.
And rather like a dream than an assurance
I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation
Snatching an axe from a Servant and killing him
Could put into them; my breeding was, sir, as
So humbly take my leave.
Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body?
Cursed be thy stones for thus deceiving me!
Pray, do my service to his majesty:
That he would steal away so guilty-like,
and a soldier; and now is he turned orthography; his
eruptions and sudden breaking out of mirth, as it
boy, half French, half English, that shall go to
Will hold thee dearly for thy mother's sake.'
the master and main exercise, the incorporate
Enter CASSIO
hypocrite, but prays from his heart.
To be married to her: friar, you come to marry her.
I should have begg'd I might have been employ'd.
Why call you me love? call my sister so.
His sole child, my lord, and bequeathed to my
I will dispatch him to the emperor's court.
And even there, his eye being big with tears,
Was he not companion with the riotous knights
I shall, my lord.
This news was brought to Richard but even now:
Able to ravish any dull conceit:
their mother,
These are the whole contents: and, good my lord,
Re-enter TITUS, with LAVINIA; he bearing a knife, and she a basin
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself--
You look as you had something more to say.
After him I love
Constrain'd to watch in darkness, rain and cold.
He overtaketh in his pilgrimage,
Of that occasion that shall bring it on.
Re-enter the Hostess
To enter our Rome gates: i' the people's name,
A business for yourself, pray heaven you then
for a search, and away went I for foul clothes. But
Without false vantage or base treachery.
God witness with me, I have wept for thine.
And ever, as it blazed, they threw on him
And here the maiden, sleeping sound,
Ay, sir; I'll call them to you.
And as the morning steals upon the night,
Exit
A man may weep upon his wedding-day.
I am glad you're well.
and credit and as I hope to live.
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
Henceforth we banish thee, on pain of death.
You need not fear, lady, the having any of these
A merriment than a vice.
Whoever spoke it, it is true, my lord.
helmed must upon a warranted need give him a better
And yet not so, for with a kiss 'twas made.
To make commotion, as full well he can,
One syllable against him?
double-dealer: there's another.
And what of all this?
Exeunt AGAMEMNON and NESTOR
The phrase is to the matter.
I care not, I, knew she and all the world:
How now, Master Ford!
Tell me--but truly--but then speak the truth,
not take too much for him; he shall pay for him that
feed on the air, I am one that am nourished by my
And that craves wary walking. Crown him?--that;--
O, are you come, Iago? you have done well,
Too flattering-sweet to be substantial.
Dost thou hear, Iago?
But nature to her bias drew in that.
SCENE IV. The palace yard.
And in regard of causes now in hand,
And from Pope Innocent the legate here,
Whither dost thou go?
O, he's returned; and as pleasant as ever he was.
controversy: as, for example, thou thyself art a
But what care I for words? yet words do well
And where that you have vow'd to study, lords,
My lords, forbear this talk; here comes the king.
Lying down at OPHELIA's feet
Exit
Re-enter Servants
So, by a roaring tempest on the flood,
And quench the guards of the ever-fixed pole:
[Within]  Who's there?
If that the heavens do not their visible spirits
In food, in sport and life-preserving rest
Peace, doting wizard, peace! I am not mad.
'Tis holy sport to be a little vain,
'Mongst all foes that a friend should be the worst!
Thou liest.
This princess of pure white, this seal of bliss!
Garnish'd and deck'd in modest complement,
So I grow stronger, you more honour gain.
As merry as crickets, my lad. But hark ye; what
And in the morning early shall my uncle
Let me tell you, Cassius, you yourself
To your proceedings; yet believe me, prince,
Till Henry Bolingbroke, Duke of Lancaster,
That makes thee strangle thy propriety:
So will I never be: so may you miss me;
Your crown and kingdom, indirectly held
I humbly pray them to admit the excuse
No, no, I will not, having breath to cry:
The beauty of her person to the people.
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  He were the worse for that,
greatness, even to the utmost syllable of your
Yet never have you tasted our reward,
account?--Yet who would have thought the old man
So shines a good deed in a naughty world.
fall pat as I told you. Yonder she comes.
And by that order of proscription.
was outrun on Cotsall.
I shall discharge to the life.
thou, Trot? Is the world as it was, man? Which is
Sicilia cannot show himself over-kind to Bohemia.
And underwrite in an observing kind
I come to cope.
But, I pray thee, tell me this: has Ford's wife and
Fetch forth the stocks! As I have life and honour,
with you for's oath sake: marry, he hath better
Stocks brought out
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
We thank you both: yet one but flatters us,
Hark, how these instruments summon to supper!
To lie like pawns lock'd up in chests and trunks,
Open-eyed conspiracy
So poorly in your thoughts.
Shall hoodwink this mischance: therefore speak softly.
But say, I pray, what nobleman is that
The press of boats or pride: a piece of work
Sweet Pandarus,--
Distinguish him from others, he did keep
Hark, what good sport is out of town to-day!
Give him defence against the elements,
Servilius! you are kindly met, sir. Fare thee well:
stealing; Modo, of murder; Flibbertigibbet, of
Unapt to stir at these indignities,
is Dromio.
That all the tears that thy poor eyes let fall
Adder, Spider,
SCENE II. Before Bourdeaux.
Sleeps
You have been noble towards her.
As did AEneas old Anchises bear,
Let us address to tend on Hector's heels:
When ladies crave to be encounter'd with.
Wherefore then
Why will my lord do so?
The mouths, the tongues, the eyes and hearts of men
Doth falsely blind the eyesight of his look:
Ill d eeds are doubled with an evil word.
him for his fault the other day, he did vow upon his
Thou shalt have cause to fear before I leave thee.
trimming; the other, that at dinner they should not
This is no answer.
There was a time when all the body's members
Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS,  PISANIO, Soldiers, Attendants, and Roman Captives.  The Captains present POSTHUMUS LEONATUS to  CYMBELINE, who delivers him over to a Gaoler: then exeunt omnes
Alone, it was the subject of my theme;
That can my speech defuse, my good intent
Peace! who comes here?
Had been her husband rather than a Christian!
Against those honours deep and broad wherewith
both parts, thou borest thy ass on thy back o'er
Whose far unworthy deputy I am,
What is the end of study? let me know.
Pray heaven it be not so, that you have such a man
Much wrong, you bate too much of your own merits:
How does the king?
Is as the very centre of the earth,
And we are graced with wreaths of victory.
The banish'd Bolingbroke repeals himself,
All this we swear.
Your matrons and your maids, could not fill up
Caesar?
The sorrow that I have, by right is yours,
then kiss his foot, then deliver up your pigeons, and
Touch their effects in this: thyself art coming
I beseech your highness, do not marry me to a whore.
thee, Malvolio?
enough than for us to undergo any difficulty imposed.
Ay, marry, was't, and he put it by thrice, every
When I am cold in zeal to yours.
Devise strange deaths for small offences done?
Let frantic Talbot triumph for a while
more eloquence in a sugar touch of them than in the
O then belike she was old and gentle; and you rode,
As if I were their well-acquainted friend;
Even he, Biondello.
She will, she will; justice hath liquored her. We
I have it not.
I have no other, but a woman's reason;
Why, that was when
For I myself at this time have employ'd him.
Bravest at the last,
Parle without, and answer within. Then a flourish.  Enter on the walls, KING RICHARD II, the BISHOP OF  CARLISLE, DUKE OF AUMERLE, SIR STEPHEN SCROOP, and EARL OF SALISBURY
And no man else hath honour by his death.
Stand in our way. There's for thy labour, Montjoy.
SCENE III. Warkworth castle
Tut, sir, I could have told you more. In these times
Not being torn a-pieces, we have done:
promise of his age, doing, in the figure of a lamb,
ACT III
To hear a night-shriek; and my fell of hair
And fan our people cold. Norway himself,
Why, now is Henry king, and Margaret queen;
My lord protector's hawks do tower so well;
Between the child and parent.
My wedded lord, I ne'er shall see again,
In an imperial charge. But I shall crave
Helping her
Which was a sin, yet in bestowing, madam,
Till she had kindled France and all the world,
This day I breathed first: time is come round,
Why did you throw your wedded lady from you?
SCENE III. Tarsus. A room in CLEON's house.
An old man.
Where Philomel gave up. I have enough:
I might know more.
That she was never yet that ever knew
Who to Philippi here consorted us:
I am now from home, and out of that provision
Let the mark have a prick in't, to mete at, if it may be.
While you, sweet dear, prove mistress of my heart!
And with that odds he weighs King Richard down.
God send her quickly!
O thou damned cur! I shall--
French quarrels enow, if you could tell how to reckon.
Unto the rainbow, or with taper-light
I grant indeed it hath not appeared, and your
I do affect the very ground, which is base, where
And you by land.
beggars were whipped, I would wish no better office
To spend upon his haters. If thou please
Where is the number of our English dead?
As any mortal body hearing it
What love could press Lysander from my side?
That he should be my fool and I his fate.
That hath to instrument this lower world
The princes both make high account of you;
Subjected tribute to commanding love,
Both, both, my girl:
Alarum afar off
Exit FALSTAFF
Hear me but speak, and bear me where you will.
Not many moons gone by.
Thou hate and terror to prosperity,
O, patience!
Than thine own worth prefer thee: go with me.
These miseries are more than may be borne.
That the lover, sick to death,
A wretched creature and must bend his body,
Here's Mistress Quickly, sir, to speak with you.
What wilt thou do, renowned Faulconbridge?
My Lord, I have consider'd in my mind
To see his nobleness!
Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent;
And her to incest did provoke:
Flourish. Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, ORLANDO, CHARLES, and Attendants
You bloody Neroes, ripping up the womb
In your imagination hold
Music plays
And of a lovely boy: the God of heaven
Do you not remember, a' saw a flea stick upon
Exeunt all but Adriana, Luciana, Officer and Courtezan
And in the closing of some glorious day
petitionary countrymen. The good gods assuage thy
Achilles will not to the field to-morrow.
As quarrelous as the weasel; nay, you must
The clouds methought would open and show riches
I will tell her.
To prove it on thee to the extremest point
Exit CRANMER
Peace be to England, if that war return
She alone knew this;
And she was wean'd,--I never shall forget it,--
And whine aloud for mercy: take him hence.
But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?
As dice are to be wish'd by one that fixes
And I for winking at your discords too
By what observance, I pray you?
And will, no doubt, shortly be rid of me.
The least of these unspeakable deserts,
But our great Ajax bravely beat down him.'
Contempt and beggary hangs upon thy back;
Definitively thus I answer you.
cry  'hem!' and bid you play it off. To conclude, I
Broken his staff of office and dispersed
There is reasons and causes for it.
Thou mean'st to have him grant thee.
Caesar was ne'er so much your enemy
Why, this it is: my heart accords thereto,
offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
She knew her distance and did angle for me,
Yet am I sick for fear: speak it again;
That will with due decision make us know
O, quietness, lady!
Nay, then, come on, and take the chance of anger.
I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my heart.
pikes with a vice; and they are dangerous weapons for maids.
Her father's heart from her! Call France; who stirs?
Nay, but this dotage of our general's
brother is royally entertained by Leonato: and I
More dregs than water, if my fears have eyes.
As liking of the lady's virtuous gifts,
A mean most meanly; and in ushering
three and twenty years.
Speak, brave Hector: we are much delighted.
O, will you eat no grapes, my royal fox?
Give me a taper! call up all my people!
Fie, what an indirect and peevish course
graces be in one woman, one woman shall not come in
His deputy anointed in His sight,
When creeping murmur and the poring dark
Troilus, I say! where's Troilus?
At seventeen years many their fortunes seek;
As hot as Perseus, spur thy Phrygian steed,
What but to speak of would offend again.
The better.
In such a one as, you consenting to't,
Ratcliff, thyself, or Catesby; where is he?
Till that Bellona's bridegroom, lapp'd in proof,
Show me which way.
For I have loaden me with many spoils,
You make more rich to owe?
Corruption wins not more than honesty.
Are you not good?
Look who comes yonder: she shall be our messenger
I have.
In Antiochus and his daughter you have heard
That I may speak: I'll write straight to my sister,
He's sudden, if a thing comes in his head.
Since this fortune falls to you,
My lord?
brought me up, I likewise give her most humble
Upon that Clifford, that cruel child-killer.
Your father's wife did after wedlock bear him,
Lo, lo, lo, lo, what modicums of wit he utters! his
money; next, give me your hand; and last, as I am a
qualities can make her be refused.
And sword and shield,
Exeunt
Here come more voices.
Whose beard they have singed off with brands of fire;
Now I see
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood,
Where shall I meet you?
I am not treacherous.
And tell me how thou hast disposed thy charge.
Enter BOTTOM
When would you have it done, sir?
Are you content to be our general?
Seize on the shame-faced Henry, bear him hence;
then of a crescent note, expected to prove so worthy
Cold fearful drops stand on my trembling flesh.
fifty each: so that the muster-file, rotten and
Bequeath to death your numbness, for from him
Whither I go, thither shall you go too;
John Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Earl of Surrey,
Did vail their crowns to his supremacy:
That is, hot ice and wondrous strange snow.
your ear, she's as fartuous a civil modest wife, and
rarity redeems him.
Couldst thou save nothing? Didst thou give them all?
My lord, I love you;
Fidele, sir.
Been well inform'd of them; and with such cautions,
perform, vowing more than the perfection of ten and
Too slow a messenger.
It is of such a spacious lofty pitch,
Often have you heard that told:
I should have chid you for not bringing it,
But his own wringing! What infinite heart's-ease
shall be the end of my business.
Thunder. Enter the three Witches
figures out of your husband's brains. If they can
Exit CASSIO
That he thereby may give a likely guess
Is Clarence dead? the order was reversed.
in that surge, like a horse-shoe; think of
And I am sent to be revenged on him.
Together with the pitiful complaints
And, as the jest did glance away from me,
Or thou, the greatest soldier of the world,
Nor iron on his heel! I am ashamed
No, my lord, I saw nothing.
Now, sir, what is your text?
As if the case were his.
Thou know'st, the first time that we smell the air,
The citizens are mum and speak not a word.
Is that she is intolerable curst
[Looking into the cave]
Why, Clarence, to myself.
'Tis not your inky brows, your black silk hair,
More plentiful than tools to do't, struck down
Why should this a desert be?
Ay, madam.
There left me and my man, both bound together;
They are devised by you; or else you suffer
Here is more news.
Let him that is no coward nor no flatterer,
bears that office, to signify their pleasures.
rush for Tom's forefinger, as a pancake for Shrove
Is this the monument of Leonato?
Being of those virtues vacant. I fear nothing
What hath proceeded worthy note to-day.
Against that power that bred it: there will she hide her,
short-armed ignorance itself knows is so abundant
So wildly?
But yet 'tis one.
And so am I, whether I smack or no;
assistant or go-between parted from me: I say I
Now am I seated as my soul delights,
As all things shall redound unto your good.
A kissing traitor. How art thou proved Judas?
Sleepest or wakest thou, jolly shepherd?
For being ignorant to whom it goes
'Tis figured in my tongue.
Let's present him to the duke, like a Roman
And to that youth he calls his Rosalind
SCENE V. The same. The senate-house. The Senate sitting.
What then?
That even his stubbornness, his cheques, his frowns--
Which, like a fountain with an hundred spouts,
For though it have holp madmen to their wits,
I had rather chop this hand off at a blow,
excellent at faults.
Enter ABRAHAM and BALTHASAR
There's some among you have beheld me fighting:
And keep not back your powers in dalliance.
Were it to woo my daughter; for it seems
The fresh streams ran by her, and murmur'd her moans;
That the contents will show.
And keep it safe for our remembrance:
More hideous when thou show'st thee in a child
Thy deafening, dreadful thunders; gently quench
Exit
Go pack with him, and give the mother gold,
Exit
See where he is, who's with him, what he does:
Had he done so to great and growing men,
Than thine, thou serpent, never adder stung.
I'll do my best
She hath abated me of half my train;
worship more of the wart the next time we have
E'en that.
Or do but lift this arm, the best of you
I would break a thousand oaths to reign one year.
For, lords, to-morrow is a busy day.
other particularities.
France should have torn and rent my very heart,
Deserves your pity?
So young, my lord, and true.
Fast bind, fast find;
Enter BRUTUS, DARDANIUS, CLITUS, STRATO, and VOLUMNIUS
The hopeless word of 'never to return'
The day serves well for them now. I have heard it
However, yet there is no great breach; when it comes,
That's not feigned; he is so.
Would sink and overwhelm you. Away!
Flight cannot stain the honour you have won;
Neighing in likeness of a filly foal:
The argument you held was wrong in you:
Though thou abhorr'dst in us our human griefs,
And there he blasts the tree and takes the cattle
And where my liege's? all about the breast:
Away, away! no time shall be omitted
You know now your hostages; your uncle's word and my
That come to hear a merry bawdy play,
Sir, I praise the Lord for you; and so may my
The Governor and some Citizens on the walls; the English forces below. Enter KING HENRY and his train
In most accepted pain.
Why, if it please you, take it for your labour:
bloody succeeding. My master!
Tucket within
What if a man bring him a hundred pound or two, to
'Alas, why is she so?'
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
I'll leave you.
To wayward sickliness and age in him:
Enter DESDEMONA with EMILIA
Upon the spot of this enforced cause,--
[Singing]
which should
'I shall beseech you'--that is question now;
beat thee into handsomeness.
Playing the mouse in absence of the cat,
My lord, I pray you, hear me.
I would always have one play but one thing.
wag, shall there be gallows standing in England when
To things of sale a seller's praise belongs,
By this hand, they are scoundrels and subtractors
Enter Chorus
Come hither, Leonato. What was it you told me of
It is not possible, it cannot be,
An esperance so obstinately strong,
And ill it doth beseem your holiness
Thou mayst cut a morsel off the spit.
Go put it to the haste.
ANTIPHOLUS
your mistress; be moved, be moved.
Our slow designs when we ourselves are dull.
The town is ta'en!
Was this the idol that you worship so?
That makes me ugly; and, besides, the Moor
Whither goest thou?
Knock, sir! whom should I knock? is there man has
Exeunt all but KING HENRY
Now he'll outstare the lightning. To be furious,
Thou know'st my daughter's of a pretty age.
ANTENOR passes
Should by the cormorant belly be restrain'd,
God Pardon him! I do, with all my heart;
Enter WORCESTER and VERNON
Lose the tide, and the voyage, and the master, and
Good madam, hear me.
It is the most impenetrable cur
What art thou?
In your own kingdom, sir.
With silken coats and caps and golden rings,
behaviors to love, will, after he hath laughed at
pret; car ce soldat ici est dispose tout a cette
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH and MARIA
Uncle, you say the queen is at your house;
Thou hast one son; for his sake pity me,
All the Talbots in the world, to save my life!
Winnow the truth from falsehood. On, speak to him.
Tell me, you heavens, in which part of his body
speak, breathe, discuss; brief, short, quick, snap.
In changing hardiment with great Glendower:
Could he not speak 'em fair?
me to wash your liver as clean as a sound sheep's
The sea enraged is not half so deaf,
But come, my lord; and with a heavy heart,
Exit
No, not to be so odd and from all fashions
'Tis a vile thing to die, my gracious lord,
And let me the canakin clink, clink;
Nor are those empty-hearted whose low sound
But there is never a fair woman has a true face.
No.
To witness simple virtue? Would you not swear,
Lest over-eyeing of his odd behavior,--
And where the worser is predominant,
'Tis Aufidius,
As if the vicar meant to cozen him.
good friends for three reprieves for you and your
arras; and there heard it agreed upon that the
these days. The king has killed his heart. Good
For thee! ay, who art thou? he hath stayed for a
On us thou canst not enter but by death;
This ruffian hath botch'd up, that thou thereby
Is so from word to word; and then you cannot,
Or, by Saint Paul, I'll strike thee to my foot,
Welcome, Horatio: welcome, good Marcellus.
But out of question 'tis Maria's hand.
Why, go to, then: but to prove to you that Helen
Even so mayst thou the giddy men of Rome.
is no man can tell what. Methought I was,--and
O' my word, the father's son: I'll swear,'tis a
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the king:
We saw him at the opening of his tent:
That he is grown so great? Age, thou art shamed!
Say, Scroop, where lies our uncle with his power?
But vows to every purpose must not hold:
All made of passion and all made of wishes,
We fear to warrant in our native place!
Dost thou speak seriously, Servilius?
Trumpet within
Received deep scars in France and Normandy?
'Tis not the difference of a year or two
Save for the son that she did litter here,
I'll tell you largely of fair Hero's death:
Does pity, as constrained blemishes,
Ah, never faith could hold, if not to beauty vow'd!
Cadwal,
The rather, for I think I know your hostess
No servant of thy master's. Against self-slaughter
Upon the innocent and aweless throne:
That this distemper'd messenger of wet,
And not in me: I am myself alone.
So long as Edward is thy constant friend,
loves thee not: thou hast wronged Caius Ligarius.
I cannot project mine own cause so well
Our poesy is as a gum, which oozes
That thou wilt war with God by murdering me?
Of roaring terrors; for the effect of judgment
As thou canst yield a melancholy seat!
Is she wedded or no?
And learn me how to lose a winning match,
Think not I flatter, for I swear I do not--
Have patience, I beseech.
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
They were again together: you have done
Believe it, sir, I have seen him in Britain: he was
Lock'd in her monument. She had a prophesying fear
bond-slave?
And calls herself Revenge, and thinks me mad:
Our hope in him is dead: let us return,
And not all love to see you, though so much
To go out of my dialect, which you
Put in her tender heart the aspiring flame
But come at once;
Good night: but go not to mine uncle's bed;
DON
Begin these wood-birds but to couple now?
A million fail, confounding oath on oath.
That holds this present question in the court?
How now! what means this passion at his name?
Sings
I very well agree with you in the hopes of him: it
He that hath lost her too; so is the queen,
To find out this abuse, whence 'tis derived.
The skies, the fountains, every region near
And cry myself awake? that's false to's bed, is it?
Why, no; for she hath broke the lute to me.
My masters of Saint Alban's, have you not beadles in
Though he be painted one way like a Gorgon,
Ay, cousin Slender, and 'Custalourum.
Young prince of Tyre, you have at large received
For I am rough and woo not like a babe.
How like you this wild counsel, mighty states?
SCENE V. Another part of the platform.
him; and on that vice in him will my revenge find
Say no more:
Sir, are not you my father?
O ho, O ho! would't had been done!
When saucy trusting of the cozen'd thoughts
Wherein your lady and your humble wife
In a most dear particular. He call'd me father:
If broken then, it is no fault of mine:
You can play no part but Pyramus; for Pyramus is a
Clouds, dews, and dangers come; our deeds are done!
The good is oft interred with their bones;
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly,
Some five or six and thirty of his knights,
To taste of too.
Wilt thou still talk?
Nor any of the house of Lancaster?
Yet, I persuade myself, to speak the truth
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
Tut, dun's the mouse, the constable's own word:
Or my life imply her any danger?
That, from the sense of all civility,
SCENE II. The DUKE OF LANCASTER'S palace.
Or gild again the noble troops that waited
For when I am revenged upon my charm,
Faith, I know more than I'll speak.
The trumpets sound. Enter the young PRINCE EDWARD, GLOUCESTER, BUCKINGHAM, CARDINAL, CATESBY, and others
Your children shall be kings.
not heard of the proclamation, have you?
Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me,
Why he, a harmless necessary cat;
For native blood is counted painting now;
If there be one among the fair'st of Greece
And do not break into these deep extremes.
Thou pout'st upon thy fortune and thy love:
Eros,
Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
Wretches so quake: they kneel, they kiss the earth;
Troth, and your bum is the greatest thing about you;
Let all untruths stand by thy stained name,
were, durst not, look you, sir, show themselves, as
Enter at one door, HORNER, the Armourer, and his  Neighbours, drinking to him so much that he is drunk;  and he enters with a drum before him and his staff  with a sand-bag fastened to it; and at the other  door PETER, his man, with a drum and sand-bag, and 'Prentices drinking to him
Signior Leonato, truth it is, good signior,
Come, sir, are you ready for death?
him: it must be a personating of himself; a satire
His bed shall seem a school, his board a shrift;
SCENE VII. Baynard's Castle.
Very brief, and to exceeding good sense--less.
man to teach her that wherein she delights, I will
It's past the size of dreaming: nature wants stuff
Madam, before you touch the instrument,
Per Styga, per manes vehor.
yet your butterfly was a grub. This Marcius is grown
I'll leave you to confer of home affairs;
Whether aught, to us unknown, afflicts him thus,
Who, I, my lord I we know each other's faces,
Than pard or cat o' mountain.
Here in this island we arrived; and here
Fit counsellor and servant for a prince,
And, noble Dauphin, albeit we swear
Or as the snake roll'd in a flowering bank,
Now, for my life, she's wandering to the Tower,
Carries beyond belief.
It is: and yours too, Isidore?
This weaves itself perforce into my business.
In some sort, sir: but though my case be a pitiful
report--after fourteen years' purchase.
and by again.
I grant I am a woman; but withal
One speak for both. What would you?
The doom of Egypt.
The curiosity of nations to deprive me,
My heart misgives me: here comes Master Fenton.
Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess
Can it be possible that no man saw them?
In England and in Ireland, not confessing
This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
Enter LAUNCELOT and JESSICA
Which is the Frenchman?
Exeunt
And first-fruits of my body, from his presence
As I am an honest man, I thought you had received
Can the world buy such a jewel?
May hold together: on her frights and griefs,
A closet lock and key of villanous secrets
I did her wrong--
I think I did, sir; I deny it not.
Seeing the body of CLOTEN
I prithee, foolish Greek, depart from me: There's
I understand thee; thou hadst some means to keep a
Exeunt
Though he be merry, yet withal he's honest.
Caesar, and companion me with my mistress.
To save our heads by raising of a head;
Of your fresh princess; o'er and o'er divides him
The mirth whereof so larded with my matter,
Or I have no observance.
So merry and so gamesome: he is call'd
Mark Antony, here, take you Caesar's body.
my wife is my friend. If men could be contented to
I love thee, and it is my love that speaks--
Sick, O, sick!
I go, let me go with that I came; which is, with
trust you not; 'Hic steterat Priami,' take heed
Well said, old mole! canst work i' the earth so fast?
do not doubt but to hear them say, it is a sweet
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to
And an old hare hoar,
My horse, my ox, my ass, my any thing;
Caesar's.
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not?
body as when he numbered thirty: he will be here
Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds:
make title to as much love as she finds: there is
They that of late were daring with their scoffs
Which I can scarcely bear.
'Two boys, an old man twice a boy, a lane,
I will not touch a bit.
Have not to do with him, beware of him;
Of comely virtues:
Is she not a fair creature?
Came to my house and took away my ring--
Even in the lukewarm blood of Henry's heart.
Who was the first of Britain which did put
We will not part from hence. Cesario, come;
To EMILIA
Hadst thou not the privilege of antiquity upon thee,--
With these you bear already.
Enter BEATRICE, behind
It should be better he became her guest;
Sell me your good report.
A time before we came unto this cell?
Would he do so, I'ld beg your precious mistress,
Drowns him, and takes his valour prisoner:
And in my vantbrace put this wither'd brawn,
Have theirs, themselves and what is theirs, in compt,
Exit Sergeant
starved. What, ostler! A plague on thee! hast thou
As far as Calais, to mine uncle's head?'
Bestow upon the eyes of this young couple
And what is left, to lose it by his country,
Moon and stars!
The queen is coming with a puissant host;
Falls asleep
Where is this sight?
I'll follow thee a month, devise with thee
Yes, but it held not:
What shall I do? I'll creep up into the chimney.
I see you're angry:
Whose sons lie scattered on the bleeding ground;
SCENE II. Windsor Park.
moon with me to make one in so skipping a dialogue.
But, madam, where is Warwick then become?
Dry up in her the organs of increase;
As I will fashion it, shall happily meet,
Hath my behavior given to your displeasure,
I would I were at home.
He commands us to provide, and give great gifts,
[Standing forth]  What says my general?
That approaches apace; I would gladly have him see
Philip of France, in right and true behalf
There's law and warrant, lady, for my curse.
Which serves it in the office of a wall,
Nay, that's a mock: I have seen a lady's nose
Out on her, hilding!
No one but he should be about the king;
I gave him gentle looks, thereby to find
truepenny?
Have I lived thus long--let me speak myself,
And to the strict'st decrees I'll write my name.
That slightly shakes his parting guest by the hand,
Had been more merciful. Come on, poor babe:
Most honour'd madam,
With the earl, sir, here within.
Bring him with triumph home unto his house.
so much as make water but in a sink-a-pace. What
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
By the white hand of my lady, he's a gallant prince.
As fear not but you shall,--show her this ring;
Dwell in his musings: but I am afraid
Thy daughter shall be wedded to my king;
swain, that base minnow of thy mirth,'--
We still have judgment here; that we but teach
Very reverend sport, truly; and done in the testimony
Why, here in Denmark: I have been sexton here, man
Shall see this, and bless heaven.
The other blank as nothing. Weigh him well,
Beside, my lord, the sooner to effect
And after that trust to thee.
sir?
For what thou professest, a baboon, could he speak,
When gouty keepers of thee cannot stand.
Stocking his messenger.
No, sir,'twas never my desire yet to trouble the
The private wound is deepest: O time most accurst,
Amen.
My noble father, Henry of Buckingham,
And then I swore thee, saving of thy life,
Yes, marry, did I	but I was fain to forswear it;
And, though I kill him not, I am the cause
Belike the elder; Clarence will have the younger.
there's an end.
O sir, I shall be hated to report it!
We'll along ourselves, and meet them at Philippi.
command at all hours.
have none.
Could not have made this peace.
All which we pine for now: and this report
Not yet on summer's death, nor on the birth
Sing all a green willow:
Thy spirits are most tall.
And made his majesty the bawd to theirs.
I did commend your highness' letters to them,
That hath deprived me of your grace and favour;
'Tis Caesar that you mean; is it not, Cassius?
And of his old experience the oily darling,
Re-enter DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times more rich;
Most reverend Nestor, I am glad to clasp thee.
It is like a barber's chair that fits all buttocks,
Confine yourself but in a patient list.
And leave the world for me to bustle in!
Noble friends,
In tempting of your patience; but am bolden'd
And say 'twill do, I know, within a while
Your highness bade me ask for it to-day.
Yea, get the better of them. What's to do?
Now will I hence about thy business,
And shortly comes to harvest.
In viewing o'er the rest o' the selfsame day,
DON
Some, how brief the life of man
He rush'd into my house and took perforce
And of the heat of the ginger. It is a beast for
A green goose a goddess: pure, pure idolatry.
Go home with it and please your wife withal;
I thought my mother, and my brother York,
Sir, my name is Lucio; well known to the duke.
Look you, these are the stops.
Fear frames disorder, and disorder wounds
herself wittingly.
As it should pierce a hundred thousand hearts;
It shall content me best: be gentle to her.
My prayers, minx!
Sir king, all hail! the gods preserve you!
green, when it was so dark thou couldst not see thy
We in your motion turn and you may move us.
Hold, Richard, hold; for we have done too much.
the letters of Antigonus found with it which they
why I do call thee so, for I will show thee no reason for't.'
A poor unmanly melancholy sprung
A long flourish
How now! who's there?
I have cursed them without cause.
Awake, dear heart, awake! thou hast slept well; Awake!
I have received much honour by your presence,
Nay, gentle madam, to him, comfort him.
Demand me nothing: what you know, you know:
duke to the nuptial. But, O, how bitter a thing it
God 'ild you, sir; I desire you of the like. I
And choice, being mutual act of all our souls,
Well, madam, we must take a short farewell,
God save the mark!--here on his manly breast:
Am I both priest and clerk? well then, amen.
her go through the streets, to know, sir, whether
Knacks, trifles, nosegays, sweetmeats, messengers
when it shall please my country to need my death.
I will despair, and be at enmity
Duty and zeal to your unmatched mind,
Helenus. I think he went not forth to-day. That's Helenus.
To say this boy were like me. Come, sir page,
A lip of much contempt, speeds from me and
Her nine farrow; grease that's sweaten
Sleep sound:
Call them again, my lord, and accept their suit.
Wilt thou needs be a beggar?
Take no repulse, whatever she doth say;
Which entertain'd, limbs are his instruments,
Why, what a candy deal of courtesy
I have seen him in France: we had very many there
By this rude place we live in. Well encounter'd!
His kingly hands, haling ropes;
Was it not to refresh the mind of man
They fight
A wisp of straw were worth a thousand crowns,
That made me happy at one stroke has taken
I do not think there is any such woman.
Thy husband.
Ay, ay: you writ them, sir, at my request;
And with dead cheeks advise thee to desist
And yet to be afeard of my deserving
To his own scandal.
Enter FENTON and ANNE PAGE
A' shall not tread on me;
Enter GRATIANO and SALARINO, masqued
How hard it is to hide the sparks of nature!
Is prisoner to the foe; his state usurp'd,
O, my heart bleeds
BISHOP
Here's a change indeed!
Fast foe to the plebeii, your voices might
Exit
And make rough winter everlastingly.
it like a fool!
Give you good morrow!
Enter TOUCHSTONE and AUDREY
emulation, nor the musician's, which is fantastical,
The lamentable change is from the best;
sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry.
He presently become a Christian;
Allowing him a breath, a little scene,
Welcome, Lord Somerset. What news from France?
my liking: in the meantime let me be that I am and
To see great Hector in his weeds of peace,
Nor doth this wood lack worlds of company,
The high imperial type of this earth's glory.
Is turn'd to folly, blasting in the bud,
Now, Lychorida!
Why, then, take no note of him, but let him go; and
on't: before Corioli he scotched him and notched
And answer me declined, sword against sword,
When Jacob grazed his uncle Laban's sheep--
Corrupt and tainted with a thousand vices,
And did not she herself revile me there?
I'll follow you, and tell what answer
Enter HECTOR
But here, upon this bank and shoal of time,
Thou speak'st truth.
It must be great that can inherit us
Before you hazard; for, in choosing wrong,
If for my love, as there is no such cause,
He wants advice.
Is't possible? no sooner got but lost? The devil
Not I, my lord.
gentleman: they will along with company, for they
O heaven, the vanity of wretched fools!
Assume the port of Mars; and at his heels,
You do not purpose to him; and as hardly
Therefore 'tis certain he was not ambitious.
Enter OLIVIA
To admit no traffic to our adverse towns Nay, more,
their coats
Come, come with me, and we will make short work;
Most potent, grave, and reverend signiors,
For a hawk, a horse, or a husband?
Ingrate forgetfulness shall poison, rather
I am full sorry
Another dowry to another daughter,
March within
Of whence are you?
It hath already publicly been read,
Exeunt
estate upon you, and here live and die a shepherd.
But that it eats our victuals, I should think
Medea gather'd the enchanted herbs
Here an alarum, and it thunders and lightens
And her troth plight,
Heaven lay not my transgression to my charge!
Gives way to in repose!
Fair be to you, my lord, and to all this fair
'We blush that thou shouldst choose; but, be refused,
That shall express my true love's fasting pain.
So flies the reckless shepherd from the wolf;
Shall's have a play of this? Thou scornful page,
John. Ah, poor heart! he is so shaked of a burning
Till time beget some careful remedy.
Casting their savageness aside have done
I have perform'd my task and was espoused:
You urged me as a judge; but I had rather
That is new-trimm'd, but benefit no further
You'll give me leave to spare, when you shall find
Sound trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, CARDINAL, SOMERSET, with Attendants
speak no more of him; you'll be whipped for taxation
We shall hear more anon.
With one soft kiss a thousand furlongs ere
He held me last night at least nine hours
The loose encounters of lascivious men:
Whither 'tis bent: most likely 'tis for you:
Than a great queen, with this condition,
Grace! not so, friend: honour and lordship are my titles.
Alexander killed his friend Cleitus, being in his
tongues else for's turn.
In practise let us put it presently.
The setting of thine eye and cheek proclaim
good grace.
I must scratch.
Myself in my incertain grounds to fail
you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
ACT I
The sun with one eye vieweth all the world.
we two will rail against our mistress the world and
Or with a base and boisterous sword enforce
Till France be won into the Dauphin's hands:
That if our queen and this young prince agree,
Let us about it: it is admirable pleasures and fery
With a most false effect; and I the truer,
ergo, light wenches will burn. Come not near her.
Is my lord angry?
I marvel I hear not of Master Brook; he sent me word
And both are ready in their offices,
My gracious liege, this too much lenity
To have bereft a prince of all his fortunes;
Putting it straight in expedition.
his heart, upon the river of Cydnus.
And torture him with grievous lingering death.
passion something and for no passion truly any
Wherefore did they not
living by the copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a
Not?
What gold and jewels she is furnish'd with,
Then he's a rogue, and a passy measures panyn: I
Did York's dread curse prevail so much with heaven?
Doth Fortune play the huswife with me now?
eminent in the degree of this fortune as Cassio
Opposed against the act, bending his sword
To make it clear; but do confess I have
Like to a murdering-piece, in many places
Made impudent with use of evil deeds,
Desire to breed by me. Here's flowers for you;
No more the thirsty entrance of this soil
I would try, if I could cry 'hem' and have him.
thing handsome about him. Bring him away. O that
Tucket. Enter MONTJOY
Good morrow, Richmond!
Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire!
haste before:
sings when he touches it; the basest horn of his
But where unbruised youth with unstuff'd brain
to prison, Pompey?
There is means, madam:
That murder'd my love's cousin, with which grief,
Will be some danger: which for to prevent,
I should have given him tears unto entreaties,
appears, it will bate.
Cause it to sound, beseech you.
My dear son Ferdinand.
When you disgraced me in my embassade,
Fie, what a slug is Hastings, that he comes not
Was ever feather so lightly blown to and fro as this
but by a metaphor.
only in Patient stillness while his rider mounts
Know you this woman?
This ornament
Which thou hast perpendicularly fell:
Tell me, and dally not, where is the money?
Purchase the sight again of dear Sicilia
To rid her from this second marriage,
Go to the Douglas, and deliver him
Nothing, my lord.
'lordship:' I ne'er drank sack in my life; and if
The Duke of York commends him to your majesty.
Moved! in good time: let him that moved you hither
In private?
And call upon my soul within the house;
Or thrive by other means.
By indirections find directions out:
Nay, I prithee now with most petitionary vehemence,
Pray you, come near: if I suspect without cause,
As one near death to those that wish him live:
Whoever knocks!
Ay, forsooth; to desire her to--
BERTRAM gives a ring
Whilst your great goodness, out of holy pity,
But how, my lord, shall we resist it now?
You put me to forget a lady's manners,
To thy false seeming! Blood, thou art blood:
Run away, I pray you!
Enter KING RICHARD III, marching, with drums and trumpets
melancholy man.
My father's love is enough to honour him: enough!
Enter Chorus
On which heaven rides, knit all the Greekish ears
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
Do not you meddle; let me deal in this.
could wish he would modestly examine himself, to see
No, not a grize; for 'tis a vulgar proof,
I am not well: send the deed after me,
Where, being but young, I framed to the harp
I'll after, more to be revenged on Eglamour
Yond towers, whose wanton tops do buss the clouds,
Hark in thine ear.
Many good morrows to my noble lord!
What, with me too, Thersites?
A heart of wreak in thee, that wilt revenge
ANTIPHOLUS
I'll warrant him for drowning; though the ship were
prince: I cannot tell, good sir, for which of his
Stand in his face to contradict his claim.
Good night, Lord Brutus.
Might stop our countryman.
Dropping upon thy head.
hath ta'en his bow and arrows and is gone forth to
Shall more obey than to the edge of steel
I swear to thee, even by thine own fair eyes,
These yellow cowslip cheeks,
How comes it, Michael, you are thus forgot?
What is it, my good lord, the king languishes of?
Is, as a virtue, fix'd, to-day was moved:
But to maintain the king, the realm and you?
Good Lord, for alliance! Thus goes every one to the
Look in his youth to have him so cut off
And you that be the king's friends, follow me.
Be free as is the wind. Deliver him, Titus.
Your choice is not so rich in worth as beauty,
Saint George and victory! fight, soldiers, fight.
SCENE II. The palace.
Part us, Northumberland; I toward the north,
Some salve for perjury.
I see my reputation is at stake
The fairest hand I ever touch'd! O beauty,
Shake it off. Come on;
bestowed her on her own lamentation, which she yet
You have a noble and a true conceit
truly: wisely I say, I am a bachelor.
to-morrow four o'clock.
Say, then: 'tis true, I ought so.
head; nay, prithee, be covered. How old are you, friend?
gown for thy master's use!
Will you not push her out? Give her the bastard.
Exeunt
Not Shafalus to Procrus was so true.
Christian. Come, my spade. There is no ancient
I can be patient; I can stay with Regan,
And rather choose to hide them in a net
SCENE I. The same.
Enter HERMIONE guarded; PAULINA and Ladies attending
Mark Antony's was by Caesar. He chid the sisters
Embowell'd of their doctrine, have left off
Behold, I pray you!
If wars, we are unable to resist.
Than hath been taught by any of my trade:
I had a wound here that was like a T,
To apply to his bleeding face. Now, heaven help him!
O, God defend my soul from such deep sin!
The sun's a thief, and with his great attraction
Thy deeds, thy plainness and thy housekeeping,
Fixing our eyes on whom our care was fix'd,
Like bulls, or rather lions: did't not wake you?
To come in to the cry without more help.
What cannot be amended.
powers, drove the grossness of the foppery into a
BISHOP
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
They do, they do: and are apparell'd thus.
How now, rustics! whither are you bound?
Let's teach ourselves that honourable stop,
And let not women's weapons, water-drops,
To credit his own lie, he did believe
I do attend here on the general;
It is noised he hath a mass of treasure.
Did I say 'better'?
To live in prayer and contemplation,
Your brother too must die; consent you, Lepidus?
Forbear to judge, for we are sinners all.
I wish your enterprise to-day may thrive.
Fie, fie, fie! cuckold! cuckold! cuckold!
And what of him? did he take interest?
Or if thou hast not sat as I do now,
Over whose acres walk'd those blessed feet
SCENE VIII. A field of battle.
O, let my lady apprehend no fear: in all Cupid's
That promises moe thousands: honour's train
Come, gentle Master Slender, come; we stay for you.
Grant I may ever love, and rather woo
Here's Decius Brutus, he shall tell them so.
And to the coffers of the king beside,
Follow your spirit, and upon this charge
They mean this night in Sardis to be quarter'd;
That ever govern'd man.
We are men, my liege.
How dearly would it touch me to the quick,
Shall feel this day as sharp to them as thorn.
A way to make us better friends, more known.
His heart as far from fraud as heaven from earth.
Being nimble-footed, he hath outrun us,
O, help, ho! light! a surgeon!
Must not be shed by such a jaded groom.
Shrunk to this little measure? Fare thee well.
And revel it as bravely as the best,
When fitness calls them on, and know by measure
to lie as to live chastely. Therefore, go back.
hands for my service but blows. When I am cold, he
In such a night as this! O Regan, Goneril!
that hangs the verses on the trees, wherein Rosalind
That ever said I hearken'd for your death.
Thou rag of honour! thou detested--
nothing but roguery to be found in villanous man:
In the king's business.
And never more have joy.
But if you do refuse to marry me,
Exeunt GLOUCESTER and EXETER
Would that alone, alone he would detain,
Hear me, people; peace!
And with my hand at midnight held your head,
Hold, Tybalt! good Mercutio!
Lives in the English court, and is received
Re-enter FABIAN, with MALVOLIO
What art thou, Greek? art thou for Hector's match?
Thou flea, thou nit, thou winter-cricket thou!
Not yet mature, yet matchless, firm of word,
a merry hour.
Should therein make me vile, the common body,
Enter Constable, ORLEANS, BOURBON, DAUPHIN, and RAMBURES
She speaks yet she says nothing: what of that?
Your eyes, which hitherto have borne in them
blame her then, being a maid yet rosed over with the
and, to inure thyself to what thou art like to be,
The noblest mind he carries
Revisit'st thus the glimpses of the moon,
God be wi' you! I have done.
And I think I have the back-trick simply as strong
What you have charged me with, that have I done;
In awe of such a thing as I myself.
I'll win our ancient right in France again,
Presents that I intend to send them both:
shoulders: but it is no English treason to cut
This afternoon, sir? well, she shall be there.
whether you were sent for, or no?
That horse that thou so often hast bestrid,
Sufficing strokes for death.
me; for every reason excites to this, that my lady
[Aside]  That will not be in haste.
Be used more thankfully. In himself, 'tis much;
But she, being mortal, of that boy did die;
thought, I dare vow for her, they touched not any
I cannot say 'tis pity
Therefore it must with circumstance be spoken
So let high-sighted tyranny range on,
take him to be, he is Ajax.
You precious winners all; your exultation
Advantaging their loan with interest
A most unworthy and unnatural lord
And here advance it in the market-place,
He seems to be a stranger; but his present is
To purge herself with words: dispatch.
When that I was and a little tiny boy,
For shame, my lord of Winchester, relent!
Will you, with those infirmities she owes,
That in the way of loyalty and truth
Who, Sir Andrew Aguecheek?
And cut your trusters' throats! bound servants, steal!
Marry, that am I and my partner.
Good madam, do: I warrant it grieves my husband,
The follower of so poor a gentleman.
And here I stand: judge, my masters.
she know me not: if she say I am not fourteen pence
thee, hind!
Good night, sweet lord Menelaus.
And stood against them, as the hope of Troy
Come, draw the curtain, Nerissa.
Pursue him and entreat him to a peace:
You may jest on, but, by the holy rood,
I dare and must deny it. Now I feel
To you that know them not. This to my mother:
Using no other weapon but his name.
An aged interpreter, though young in days:
But where he meant to ruin, pitiful:
So are you, princes English, every one.
sport anon: follow me, gentlemen.
But have been gazed on like a comet: she speaks,
Good repose the while!
As begging hermits in their holy prayers:
Nor woo in rhyme, like a blind harper's song!
You are no maiden, but a monument:
You, madam, for you are more nobly born,
And summon him to-morrow to the Tower,
What sayest thou?
That is but scratch'd withal: I'll touch my point
Let them approach.
This present object made probation.
Forward by nature, enemy to peace;
When he had carried Rome and that we look'd
from him, it shows to man the tailors of the earth;
Takes off his false beard
thy lungs military: art thou there? it is thine
lords: they have acquainted me with their
An therefore, goaded with most sharp occasions,
A place below the first: for what miscarries
And four shall quickly draw out my command,
Nor more can you distinguish of a man
With open mouth swallowing a tailor's news;
It is an honour 'longing to our house,
Now, tell me, how do all from whence you came?
Her heart inform her tongue,--the swan's
Did, as a prophet, weep what it foresaw
False blood to false blood join'd! gone to be friends!
And shut myself up in some other course,
Between the constant red and mingled damask.
Francis!
Lies in his bed, walks up and down with me,
Our lamp is spent, it's out! Good sirs, take heart:
Partition make with spectacles so precious
'Tis true: there's magic in the web of it:
After the moon. If thou art rich, thou'rt poor;
Our army is ready; come, we'll after them.
What trade, thou knave? thou naughty knave, what trade?
And so deliver, I am put to sea
For speaking false in that: thou art, alone,
now art thou sociable, now art thou Romeo; now art
Walk; let's see if other watchmen
To see such lovers, Thurio, as yourself:
Reason, you rogue, reason: thinkest thou I'll
Finish, good lady; the bright day is done,
fortune hath conveyed to my understanding; and, but
More counsel with more money, bounteous Timon.
Throwing the money back
Despair thy charm;
I was once before him for getting a wench with child.
So many miles with a pretence? this place?
What mean'st thou, Suffolk; tell me, what are these?
By the apostle Paul, shadows to-night
No more infected with my country's love
To whom 'tis instant due. Ne'er speak, or think,
Hark you, sir; you mean not her to--
Richard!
The insolence of office and the spurns
Change the complexion of her maid-pale peace
serving-men in their new fustian, their white
And she respects me as her only son.
And on the pieces of the broken wand
Should hold up high in brass, and such again
Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs;
Shall disturb this hallow'd house:
O thou day o' the world,
Pierced to the soul with slander's venom'd spear,
If they return in their own shapes to woo?
This shoulder was ordain'd so thick to heave;
Shall we their fond pageant see?
take the court for Paris-garden? ye rude slaves,
Let him have all the rigor of the law.
Go, by this token: rise, and lend thine ear:
But there is come a messenger before,
Enter PAULINA, with a child
And yet to win her, all the world to nothing!
Upon his passion; let myself and fortune
By a vain, giddy, shallow, humorous youth,
Exeunt KING CLAUDIUS and POLONIUS
make it good.
Search for a jewel that too casually
I will hear Cassius; and compare their reasons,
Are to the world in general as to Caesar.
So smile the heavens upon this holy act,
Drag back our expedition: certain horse
That's false.
That never saw the giant world enraged;
Why, that was he.
distemper he is in now: I am glad the fat knight is not here.
How comes it? do they grow rusty?
All at one cast? to set so rich a main
Must not be measured by his worth, for then
Come, come, you mock me; this is not the way
Is more vindicative than jealous love:
Nor heaven peep through the blanket of the dark,
Then, in despite of brooded watchful day,
Is the chair empty? is the sword unsway'd?
Wife, mother, child, I know not. My affairs
And leave you to your graver steps. Hermione,
He's hearing of a cause; he will come straight
speak to me: for I am Trinculo--be not afeard--thy
Beshrew him for't!
SCENE I. The moated grange at ST. LUKE's.
Only for praise sake, when they strive to be
'Twixt hour and hour?
I am barr'd, like one infectious. My third comfort
Ay, marry, why was he sent into England?
but what mystery there should be in hanging, if I
Am I not stay'd for? tell me.
out of prawls, and prabbles' and quarrels, and
Hath pawn'd the Sicils and Jerusalem,
RICHARD
No single soul
Thou basest thing, avoid! hence, from my sight!
O heaven! this is Mistress Anne Page.
And for that cause I trained thee to my house.
Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain,
To be revenged on Rivers, Vaughan, Grey:
to a whipping, if you were but bound to't.
Clarence still breathes; Edward still lives and reigns:
The foul corruption of a sweet child's death.
As is my grief, or lesser than my name!
Attend him here this morning.
And yet the eighth appears, who bears a glass
Took once a pliant hour, and found good means
Runs on the dexter cheek, and this sinister
which he swore, as he was a soldier, he would wear
Hamlet, Hamlet!
I have to use: thy frank election make;
That's as much as to say, Can she so?
And to that end, sir, I will welcome you.
That head of thine doth not become a crown;
Will seize the doctor too. How ended she?
on his head a demi-coronal of gold. With
Richard not far from hence hath hid his head.
Giving it to PERDITA
As 'tis to laugh at 'em. My mother, you wot well
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
Your letters did withhold our breaking forth;
I know ye well enough.
skill. Good cousin, have a care this busy time.
If you deny to dance, let's hold more chat.
Now, brother of Clarence, how like you our choice,
And then betwixt me and my married wife.
Go to kennel, Pompey; go.
Sir Walter Blunt, new lighted from his horse.
promised me, as he is a gentleman and a soldier, he
And, in the number, thee that wishest shame!
My wife can speak no English, I no Welsh.
The hateful mansion.
Exit LYCHORIDA
Your favours nor your hate.
'A tedious brief scene of young Pyramus
Pardon me, Caesar; for my dear dear love
That have their first conception by mis-dread,
wench is cast away: she's quick; the child brags in
Tell him his fears are shallow, wanting instance:
Find such another master.
plague break thy neck for frightening me! What's
My heart will be a burthen to me. Leave me,
Is else devoted, I am but a shadow;
If it be not, forswear't: howe'er, I charge thee,
offendress against nature. Virginity breeds mites,
mistook in you!
One horse, my lord, he brought even now.
You speak not like yourself; who ever yet
And Anne my wife hath bid the world good night.
Which shines here in the west.
Than wife is to the husband? If this law
Double, double toil and trouble;
Against my honour?
It is no other: show your wisdom, daughter,
And shall do:
I have no strength to pluck thee to the brink.
d'Angleterre, Heritier de France; and thus in
Our swifter composition.
Upon my daughter's head! Tell me, mine own.
And looked upon, I hope, with cheerful eyes.
And the creature run from the cur? There thou
Directly seasons him his enemy.
I pray you, know me when we meet again:
To break within the bloody house of life,
The lady stirs.
Pardon, dear father.
displeasure.
For the inheritance of their loves and safeguard
To see inherited my very wishes
Here is my journey's end, here is my butt,
Feed, and regard him not. Are you a man?
Or let the church, our mother, breathe her curse,
And left thee but a very prey to time;
Stretch him out longer.
How now, sir! you villain!
A foolish heart, that I leave here behind.
That honour saved may upon asking give?
He brings great news.
The legions and the horse whole, do you not?
'I would he had'! 'Twas you incensed the rabble:
As long a term as yet we have to live,
No, by my troth, my lord.
BRAKENBURY reads it
Open the gates, or I'll shut thee out shortly.
Swallow them up. Now, by yond marble heaven,
Damn her, lewd minx! O, damn her!
The end of this day's business ere it come!
A good blunt fellow. Why, being younger born,
He, he, and you, and you, my liege, and I,
Yet, if that quarrel, fortune, do divorce
Only a show or two, and so agree
O, good my lord, tax not so bad a voice
Thou robed man of justice, take thy place;
We will not line his thin bestained cloak
What, drawn, and talk of peace! I hate the word,
Upon a barren mountain and still winter
And given in earnest what I begg'd in jest.
Exeunt GARDINER and Page
For you, Prince Bassianus, I have pass'd
Tempt not too much the hatred of my spirit;
But see thy fault! France hath in thee found out
Sir Toby, madam, your kinsman.
To have his sight thither and back again.
Let his arms alone;
house is turned upside down since Robin Ostler died.
the spirit of love in her, that he will appear in
Forsooth, a great arithmetician,
Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone;
Who is't you mean?
me to stay with the Jew. The fiend gives the more
Welcome hither:
Has caught me in his eye: I will present
Look, when I vow, I weep; and vows so born,
For my affection.
chiefest of them too: if I cannot ward what I would
when we are sick in fortune,--often the surfeit
believe thee,
Until my lord's return: for mine own part,
me;  but she's gone.
if peradventure this be true. Go you and tell her of it.
Your pardon, noble mistress!
To make it known to us.
[Reads]  'Imprimis: She can milk.'
Enter KING HENRY V, GLOUCESTER, BEDFORD, EXETER, WARWICK, WESTMORELAND, and Attendants
Only deserve my love by loving him;
is slow of; of her purse she shall not, for that
I have seen thee stem, and thou hast oft beheld
Why, I can buy me twenty at any market.
Only it spoils the pleasure of the time.
So should we save a valiant gentleman
opposite with a kinsman, surly with servants; let
Mine honour for his truth: who being so heighten'd,
I prithee, grieve, to make me merry, York.
Good even, good father.
As the winter to foul weather.
Why, what a king is this!
I will be treble-sinew'd, hearted, breathed,
Suspect still comes where an estate is least.
O, take her home, mistress, take her home: these
A jest's prosperity lies in the ear
Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
If that thy father live, let him repent
Why sigh'st thou without breaking?
Where but by chance a silver drop hath fallen,
The king my father gave you such a ring.
To this most cruel act, do but despair;
Re-enter SIMPLE
'Tis known, Achilles, that you are in love
We'll higher to the mountains; there secure us.
And many of the consuls, raised and met,
The daughter of this lord?
As Owen Glendower for an enemy.
Worthy Saint Michael and the Golden Fleece;
lose my doctor? no; he gives me the potions and the
And pass my daughter a sufficient dower,
I fear I am not in my perfect mind.
This is a dear manikin to you, Sir Toby.
For all the treasure that thine uncle owes:
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
To your best kindness: one of your great knowing
Satis quod sufficit.
'Twixt you and your poor brother.
Your brows are blacker; yet black brows, they say,
No more than from my soul I mourn for yours.
I should think this a gull, but that the
A phoenix that shall make all France afeard.
And bring your music forth into the air.
would make it flame again: for the nobles receive
serve you to mend your shoes: come, wherefore should
why Brutus rose against Caesar, this is my answer:
As never did the clergy at one time
Again to sleep.
To God, his sovereign and to him disloyal;
And if the boy have not a woman's gift
No cock of mine; you crow too like a craven.
From whose obedience I forbid my soul,
For him I imitate: O, if it prove,
By heavens, I'll go:
Nor should thy prowess want praise and esteem,
Thus raps you? Are you well?
Here are your sons again; and I must lose
That's Hector, that, that, look you, that; there's a
fellow be looked to:' fellow! not Malvolio, nor
And lead these testy rivals so astray
Are yet two Romans living such as these?
Exit Second Clown
Do break the clouds, as did the wives of Jewry
ANTIPHOLUS
A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say
Phebe did write it.
the hearing.
I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.
But rather one that smiles and still invites
I shall be saved by my husband; he hath made me a
We, poising us in her defective scale,
Never mole, hare lip, nor scar,
The Earl of Salisbury craveth supply,
My lessons make no music in three parts.
Which is from my remembrance! Please you, farther.
So think I too.
Hang her an epitaph upon her tomb
Base men by his endowments are made great.
And in that glorious supposition think
She was the first fruit of my bachelorship.
And the Phoenicians go a-ducking; we
Why, there you touch'd the life of our design:
He needs not our mistrust, since he delivers
In this just suit come I to move your grace.
We are honour'd much by good Simonides.
These letters will resolve him of my mind. Farewell.
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
But, notwithstanding, haste; make no delay:
And not endure all threats? sleep upon't,
It will be found so, Master Page. Master Doctor
you.
And let us bathe our hands in Caesar's blood
Why, this is a more exquisite song than the other.
when thou needest him, there thou shalt find him.
A fine musician to instruct our mistress;
And thou must make a dullard of the world,
[Aside]            All the better: may
The best and wholesomest spirts of the night
To be set high in place, we did commend
very uncleanly flux of a cat. Mend the instance, shepherd.
Then both, or one, or any thing thou wilt.
I pray ye, greet them fairly.
Falls on the body
Ay.
As oft it loses all: I will be gone;
France is a bawd to Fortune and King John,
That ring's a thousand proofs.
And give them life whom hunger starved half dead.
Sleep in their graves.
And many strokes, though with a little axe,
of a lion.
March. Enter WARWICK, MONTAGUE, and their army
Both more and less have given him the revolt,
Which was as gross as ever touch'd conjecture,
Now, lords, for France; the enterprise whereof
Go draw aside the curtains and discover
Nor other satisfaction do I crave,
But few of any sort, and none of name.
all things: I will tell you, asse my friend,
Farewell, kinsman: I'll talk to you
And see it instantly consumed with fire;
If I be not ashamed of my soldiers, I am a soused
He throws upon the gross world's baser slaves:
[Seeing BIONDELLO]
Brutus shall lead; and we will grace his heels
What says that fool of Hagar's offspring, ha?
Thanks, dear Isabel.
By many hands your father was subdued;
Tut, I have work enough for you to do.
Be muster'd; bid the captains look to't. Now, sir,
What 'tis to cram a maw or clothe a back
Hath been as continent, as chaste, as true,
Haply some poison yet doth hang on them,
Chrish save me, la! in an hour: O, tish ill done,
A sly and constant knave,
My lord, there's an army gathered together in
If that the soldier strike him, as I judge
Is this true, Pistol?
But by the ear, that hears most nobly of him:
Your answer to that.
That I am not.
Did not together pluck such envy from him
He faints! My lord, my lord!
Thyself hast loved; and I have heard thee say
To Adriana, villain, hie thee straight:
this I am not certain.
Alas, what joy shall noble Talbot have
And be my vantage to exclaim on you.
Conveniently the rest convey;
Mistress Thersites!
My lord Bassanio and my gentle lady,
What is she but a foul contending rebel
That I am Prospero and that very duke
'Item: She can knit.'
think is within me, begins to mutiny against this
Have lopp'd and hew'd and made thy body bare
this place is too cold for hell. I'll devil-porter
And bid her steal into the pleached bower,
If you offend him, I for him defy you.
Will then cry out of Marcius 'O if he
O gracious duke,
So doth the swan her downy cygnets save,
That, when he please again to be himself,
Belike 'tis but a rumour. Good night to you.
Would you buy her, that you inquire after her?
The king hath run bad humours on the knight; that's
I am fall'n in this offence.
This life is most jolly.
Strike in their numb'd and mortified bare arms
And she is fair, and, fairer than that word,
Beg at the gates, like Tarquin and his queen.
Thou thinkest I am in sport: I pray thee tell me
And the ass more captain than the lion, the felon
the very man. Here's his dry hand up and down: you
tell you, since I heard of the good lady's death and
Into a goodly bulk: good time encounter her!
'Twas I; but 'tis not I	I do not shame
Come, you are deceived, I think of no such thing.
To revel it with him and his new bride:
Torments him so, that he will sure run mad.
Laid open all your victories in Scotland,
Good Proteus, go with me to my chamber,
A most royal one; the centurions and their charges,
Sore hurt and bruised: the dreadful Sagittary
thou rather to be hanged in compassing thy joy than
What should I stay--
And I repent my fault more than my death;
Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE, and LADY GREY
By Isis, I will give thee bloody teeth,
What, no more ceremony? See, my women!
Hath charged you should not speak together.
What our contempt doth often hurl from us,
ward to the son, and the son manage his revenue.
What though he love your Hermia? Lord, what though?
This is the last: so we will home to Rome,
Having been three months married to her, sitting in
[Advancing]             Ay, so thou dost,
Edmund had issue, Roger Earl of March;
He loves me well, and I have given him reasons;
Mean you to enjoy him?
'Sblood, but you will not hear me:
if something thou wilt swear to be believed,
Exeunt
Against my coming in: thou better know'st
And cast you, with the waters that you lose,
It likes me well. Biondello, hie you home,
And thereof comes the proverb: 'Blessing of your
Why, what an intricate impeach is this!
And duty never yet did want his meed:
To do offence and scath in Christendom.
No din but snores the house about,
As it were sin to doubt--that love this painting
Since she respects my mistress' love so much.
With his free duty recommends you thus,
Where he bestows himself?
My lord, the first time that I ever saw him
She for an Edward weeps, and so do I;
And so we'll leave you to your meditations
As God's own soldier, rounded in the ear
Then, lest my lie be cropp'd to keep you clear,
Trumpets within
Entirely to her love, but if she lost it
Why speak'st thou not? what ransom must I pay?
I am a drunkard! Had I as many mouths as Hydra,
Were you but riding forth to air yourself,
Madam, madam!
All in this presence are thy betters, Warwick.
Which patience could not pass.
If I do feign, you witnesses above
Which beasts would cough at: thy palate then did deign
Please you, draw near. Louder the music there!
Though all that I can do is nothing worth,
So he doth you, my lord; and said this other day you
Hail, many-colour'd messenger, that ne'er
facit monachum; that's as much to say as I wear not
Beetles black, approach not near;
Procure me music ready when he wakes,
and the bodies shall be dragged at my horse' heels
I thank you, gentle uncle. O, my lord,
purpose! Fortune, put them into my hand! This is
never an eye in thy head? canst not hear? An
Does unmake you. I have given suck, and know
SCENE V. London. The Tower.
And grapple thee unto a pagan shore;
It is Cassandra.
Coal-black is better than another hue,
What should it be, that they so shriek abroad?
reproof and rebuke from every ear that heard it.
I faintly broke with thee of Arthur's death;
change your trade; I'll be your tapster still.
With foul and violent tempest.
water on thy choler: go about the fields with me
Therefore I think I am not in the night;
The wages of their virtue, and all foes
treasonable abuses!
The reason moved these warlike lords to this
old mothy saddle and stirrups of no kindred;
Enter OLIVIA and MARIA
Alarum: excursions, wherein JOHN TALBOT is hemmed about, and TALBOT rescues him
The more it promises: as it ebbs, the seedsman
Swinge me them soundly forth unto their husbands:
Do you know this house to be a place of such resort,
liberty, these are the only men.
bull-calf. What a slave art thou, to hack thy sword
The DUKE and Senators sitting at a table; Officers attending
Till the rough seas, that spare not any man,
I'll send her straight away: to-morrow
Come, let's have her aboard suddenly.
your ladyship's good will to go to the world, Isbel
Enter KING, HELENA, and Attendants. LAFEU and PAROLLES retire
And well deserving? yet I know her for
Nay, he must bear you company. The king
BEDFORD dies, and is carried in by two in his chair
In the contempt and anger of his lip!
I'll bring you to him straight.
Stay not, all's in vain.
God be wi' you: let's meet as little as we can.
Antonio, O my dear Antonio!
Methinks your looks are sad, your cheer appall'd:
For me, the ransom of my bold attempt
There should be found such false dissembling guile?
the whirlwind of passion, you must acquire and beget
Exit
Stay yet. You vile abominable tents,
Counter-cheque Quarrelsome: and so to the Lie
That very frankly he confess'd his treasons,
And that's the wavering commons: for their love
To DUKE OF AUMERLE
I know, madam, you love your gentlewoman entirely.
Will you prick't with your eye?
Trumpets sounded, and the coffin laid in the tomb
To-morrow morning come you to my house,
DON
Bootless is flight, they follow us with wings;
Lest my remembrance suffer ill report;
And danger, like an ague, subtly taints
Amen.
Here at my house and at my proper cost.
Go to, thou art a witty fool; I have found thee.
For you a mortal mineral; which, being took,
As you have said, my lord.
Of my good purposes, and put your children
But doubt discovery there. Will you grant with me
Yet speaks and peradventure may recover.
The motley fool thus moral on the time,
And all goes worse than I have power to tell.
But, like a lackey, from the rise to set
The ne'er touch'd vestal: try thy cunning, Thyreus;
To tell it o'er: go to; well said, well said.
Such and no other than event doth form it,
Has crept too near his conscience.
If ever any malice in your heart
O tiger's heart wrapt in a woman's hide!
Which, when I saw rehearsed, I must confess,
Of her two branches, those sweet ornaments,
But didst thou see them dead?
Titinius, if thou lovest me,
O, he smiles valiantly.
Most willingly;
Will be here with mop and mow.
motions: if it be my luck, so; if not, happy man be
petticoat: and indeed the tears live in an onion
First, from the park let us conduct them thither;
Thou hast not, cousin;
Luke's, to bid the priest be ready to come against
A Roman,
But yet a brain that leads my use of anger
My brother and thy uncle, call'd Antonio--
He hath a wisdom that doth guide his valour
Give me excuse, good madam; I will obey you in every
Nay, let him alone: I'll go another way to work
Brave Burgundy, undoubted hope of France!
Fain would I woo her, yet I dare not speak:
And doth it give me such a sight as this?
Of thee and me, and sighs, and takes my glove,
So fair, and fasten'd to an empery,
No, in good troth, Bianca.
Re-enter AARON, with QUINTUS and MARTIUS
She speaks much of her father; says she hears
An unkind breach: but you shall make all well.
Towards York shall bend you with your dearest speed,
SCENE I. A street.
taught me how to know a man in love; in which cage
Nor how it may concern my modesty,
Peace be amongst them, if they turn to us;
The sword of our slain kings: yet do not fear;
Slain, sir, doubtless.
From strange to stranger. Say, how came you hither?
How ceremonious, solemn and unearthly
Exeunt NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
And all the more it seeks to hide itself,
Rest you, whiles I lament King Henry's corse.
And yet no matter: why should we go in?
How begot, how nourished?
Enter TITANIA and BOTTOM; PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH,  MUSTARDSEED, and other Fairies attending; OBERON behind unseen
And play the swaggerer; bear this, bear all:
Cranmer will find a friend will not shrink from him.
Under what captain serve you?
All praises, which are paid as debts,
As yonder lady o'er her fellows shows.
First with the best of note: Cymbeline loved me,
The credit that thy lady hath of thee
How would it fare with your departed souls?
Sleep she as sound as careless infancy:
And as I thrust thy body in with my sword,
clock. Our general cast us thus early for the love
Th' other's not come to't; you shall tell me another
And at first meeting loved;
Exit Provost. ISABELLA comes forward
have a stoup of wine; and here without are a brace
afford her, that were she other than she is, she
That frights the maidens of the villagery;
Ay, the best for the worst. But, sirrah, what say
By me that's said or done amiss this night;
discretion; I had as lief thou didst break his neck
What man is there so much unreasonable,
And make his dead trunk pillow to our lust.
But shorten thy life one week. And thou, fresh piece
Did claim some certain dukedoms, in the right
Or, he that slew her brothers and her uncles?
I love this youth; and I have heard you say,
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
But stay a while: what company is this?
That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
To pity too.
To hazard life and rescue you from him
And some donation freely to estate
Enter DOGBERRY, VERGES, and Sexton, in gowns; and the Watch, with CONRADE and BORACHIO
By the mass, and 'tis like a camel, indeed.
I will, my lord. There are two gentlemen
Or ere your pulse twice beat.
have a fine hawk for the bush. Shall it be so?
The ground of your ill-will, and so remove it.
Brother, farewell: I will unto the king;
O my lord, my lord,
Your worth is very dear in my regard.
I muse we met not with the Dauphin's grace,
Leave your crisp channels and on this green land
To-morrow, then, we will attend your grace:
it, and the lady hath it: sweet clown, sweeter
This evening must I leave you, gentle Kate.
Do not you fear: upon mine honour,
And after, this: and then to breakfast with
Is thy news good, or bad? answer to that;
Since we can not atone you, we shall see
I am the master of my speeches, and would undergo
evasions have ears thus long. I have bobbed his
Dwelt by a churchyard: I will tell it softly;
And hath shipped me intil the land,
Do not believe him. O, behold this ring,
To set his sense on the attentive bent,
All time of pause, rudely beguiles our lips
But being widow, and my Gloucester with her,
And frowning brow to brow, ourselves will hear
Thanks, sir: the like to you!
That Maine which by main force Warwick did win,
Tarry I here, I but attend on death:
Presents more woeful pageants than the scene
How high a pitch his resolution soars!
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
Enter the conspirators, CASSIUS, CASCA, DECIUS BRUTUS, CINNA, METELLUS CIMBER, and TREBONIUS
This was my speech, and I will speak't again--
Richard Earl of Cambridge.
I should to Plashy too;
Why, he hath not been thrice in my company! What
Is not this buckled well?
I have spoke this, to know if your affiance
Thou canst help time to furrow me with age,
And forced to drink their vapour.
Methinks our pleasure might have been demanded,
Playing in the wanton air:
And part in just proportion our small strength.
The king in this perceives him, how he coasts
I did not think to draw my sword 'gainst Pompey;
Know, I pray you,--
I am the cygnet to this pale faint swan,
I remember him well, and I remember him worthy of
For bounty, that makes gods, does still mar men.
that lord; he's ever sending: how shall I thank
SCENE I. Florence. The DUKE's palace.
If to my sword his fate be not the glory,
The French, advised by good intelligence
And shooting well is then accounted ill.
That you do lie so late?
We talk with goblins, owls and sprites:
He faints
Genitive case!
Your most grave belly was deliberate,
wast the properest man in Italy.
Drawing his sword
Will you make haste?
Wait in your royal walks, your board, your bed!
Some one with child by him? My cousin Juliet?
To undergo such maiden pilgrimage;
The sooner to effect what I intended:
Pray for me! I must now forsake ye: the last hour
I prithee go and get me some repast;
This lanthorn doth the horned moon present;
To set the crown once more on Henry's head:
Yea, and text underneath, 'Here dwells Benedick the
That perish'd by the way: thoughts are no subjects;
When a gentleman is disposed to swear, it is not for
In anger, Juno-like. Come, come, come.
Within my sword's length set him; if he 'scape,
We are for you: sit i' the middle.
BISHOP
Re-enter Lords, with EXETER and train
And with such sober and unnoted passion
And therefore is wing'd Cupid painted blind:
During the time Edward the Third did reign.
He passes.
Of all mad matches never was the like.
Now, by God's will, thou wrong'st him, Somerset;
I hold as little counsel with weak fear
The guilt of conscience take thou for thy labour,
I answer'd indirectly, as I said;
Have the patricians of you. For your wants,
Most wise in general: tell me, if thou canst,
To cure thy o'er-night's surfeit? Call the creatures
God's blessing on your beard!
Within my mouth you have engaol'd my tongue,
His power unto Octavia.
her, not bedded her; and sworn to make the 'not'
Lord chancellor in your place.
Enter PHILARIO, IACHIMO, a Frenchman, a Dutchman, and a Spaniard
That your estate requires and mine can yield.
The leperous distilment; whose effect
In strange eruptions; oft the teeming earth
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds,
By whom shall I send this?--Company! stay.
A freckled whelp hag-born--not honour'd with
On pain of torture, from those bloody hands
If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully:
We'll pull his plumes and take away his train,
Oh! oh! groans out for ha! ha! ha!
In me to lose.
Such a one is a natural philosopher. Wast ever in
Then is sin struck down like an ox, and iniquity's
Good.
Yet tell'st thou not how thou wert entertain'd.
Marry, go before to field, he'll be your follower;
Wert thou the devil, and worest it on thy horn,
Exit RUGBY
I am not glad that such a sore of time
Why should you think that I should woo in scorn?
His liberty is full of threats to all;
In thy tale.
hand. Why tribute? why should we pay tribute? If
Ay, and a shrewd unhappy gallows too.
Well fare you, gentleman: give me your hand;
Who drown'd their enmity in my true tears.
That you did fear is done.
By reason guide his execution.
Yet not the son, I will not call him son
You may look pale, but I should blush, I know,
To send the old and miserable king
My wife, not meanly proud of two such boys,
No warmth, no breath, shall testify thou livest;
With all my heart. Some three or four of you
I had rather want those than my head. Have at you!
There came divers of Antonio's creditors in my
Once more, the more to aggravate the note,
gyves on; for indeed I had the most of them out of
O' the floor;
Abuses me to damn me: I'll have grounds
Whom leprosy o'ertake!--i' the midst o' the fight,
O, be to me, though thy hard heart say no,
On your imaginary forces work.
But for my bonny Kate, she must with me.
And Lord Biron, I thank him, is my dear.
praise, and that highly, not to speak it profanely,
Made daily motions for our home return:
for young Charbon the Puritan and old Poysam the
not well cut,' he disabled my judgment: this is
And what poor duty cannot do, noble respect
When the hurlyburly's done,
This is my treasurer: let him speak, my lord,
But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,
A lover's eyes will gaze an eagle blind;
The names of those their nobles that lie dead:
Do what thou darest; I beard thee to thy face.
Enter an AEdile
The Duke of Exeter is as magnanimous as Agamemnon;
forest. Send me a cool rut-time, Jove, or who can
And sin to break it.
Is now urged on you.
nuptial. So much was his pleasure should be
Is 'plain and true;' there's all the reach of it.
Wouldst have me kneel? first let me ask of these,
Enter a Sheriff
Speak to great Caesar as he comes along.
Our trivial difference loud, we do commit
may sigh it off. Send after the duke and appeal to
you are so crossed.
And yet I must remember you, my lord,
I am about to weep; but, thinking that
I have begun to plant thee, and will labour
A sennet sounded. Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK  ANTONY, LEPIDUS, POMPEY, AGRIPPA, MECAENAS, DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, MENAS, with other captains
I must have patience to endure the load:
O, thou art deceived; I would have made it short:
coach! Good night, ladies; good night, sweet ladies;
With words, fair looks and liberality?
O, then, I see Queen Mab hath been with you.
Nor wink, nor nod, nor kneel, nor make a sign,
See not your bride in these unreverent robes:
But rather make you thank your pains for it.
When we are born, we cry that we are come
Always reserved my holy duty--what
the truth, stolen from my host at Saint Alban's, or
My lord cardinal,
If there were no foes, that were enough
For me as for you?
And two Northumberlands; two braver men
Exeunt
I know not what to say.
This hateful imperfection of her eyes:
An't please your grace, Sir Thomas Bullen's daughter--
Their force, their purposes; nay, I'll speak that
On any soul removed but on his own.
Good fool, as ever thou wilt deserve well at my
No companies abroad?
What are you there? come in, and give some help.
Antipholus, thou camest from Corinth first?
nor no in luck stirring but what lights on my
[Picking his pocket]
Now, they believe it; and withal whet me
That nor my service past, nor present sorrows,
Which can as well inflame as it can kill.
Welcome, good Cambio.
Our fatherless distress was left unmoan'd;
O, two such silver currents, when they join,
That seems to speak things strange.
Or have acquaintance with mine own desires,
I and my brother are not known; yourself
For thy sweet mistress' sake, because thou lovest her.
And makest them kiss! that speak'st with
Reft of his brother, but retain'd his name--
Come, come, my boy; we will to sanctuary.
Art thou sure of this?
To honour them:
To load a falling man.
Ay, but thou talk'st as if thou wert a king.
Gives but the greater feeling to the worse:
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
As by his smoothed brows it doth appear:
That ever swore her faith.
That I to your assistance do make love,
Why sinks that cauldron? and what noise is this?
But must not break my back to heal his finger;
And I beseech you instantly to visit
A damned death!
Make use of thy salt hours: season the slaves
How now, Patroclus!
Like egg-shells moved upon their surges, crack'd
And he that speaks doth gripe the hearer's wrist,
Why should he not?
Madam, I have been bold to trouble you;
It lies much in your holding up. Haste you speedily
O, temperance, lady!
It was great ignorance, Gloucester's eyes being out,
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib,
And these breed honour: that is honour's scorn,
Exit
What's her price, Boult?
To thy suggestion, plot, and damned practise:
Did this break-from her: 'Good Antigonus,
The cloyed will,
With slaughter's pencil, where revenge did paint
I would thou hadst my bones, and I thy news:
Take on himself the sovereignty thereof:
Was my beloved in Rome: yet thou behold'st!
Go thou to Richmond, and good fortune guide thee!
Mine interest and his honour, or have charged him,
What should I do, I do not?
Whither wilt thou go? Take good Cominius
How does your grace?
This news hath made thee a most ugly man.
Thou but rememberest me of mine own conception: I
Enter KENT, GLOUCESTER, and EDMUND
To tire your royalty.
Great nature, like his ancestry,
To undeck the pompous body of a king;
give him his desire. Back you shall not to the
Exeunt
have not scaped drowning to be afeard now of your
But that you shall not say I yield being silent,
Why, to keep one's eyes of either side's nose; that
Ay.
for no man's leisure, sleep when I am drowsy and
By noting of the lady I have mark'd
I never heard the absent duke much detected for
Shall be so ever.
Will one day end it.
bide with him,
The harmony of their tongues hath into bondage
Pardon me, madam; I have unadvised
A wonder!
The yielding of her up?
If she be very well, what does she ail, that she's
If this which he avouches does appear,
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
The fresh-brook muscles, wither'd roots and husks
thousand pound. Didst perceive?
No, I'll not be your half
Woe, woe for England! not a whit for me;
On him so near us? This needs must be a practise.
Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior,
all, it is impossible. My lords, Saint Alban here
They say it is a copy out of mine. Come, captain,
saw.
With the same 'havior that your passion bears
Why, universal plodding poisons up
The forest walks are wide and spacious;
When 't pleased you to employ me.
Sent by the heavens for Prince Saturnine,
SCENE I. Rome. A street.
it, is my mother, and this my father; a vengeance
am out of the road of rutting for ever.
Though yet he never harm'd me, here I quit him:
Too familiar
Flourish. Enter CAESAR; ANTONY, for the course;  CALPURNIA, PORTIA, DECIUS BRUTUS, CICERO, BRUTUS,  CASSIUS, and CASCA; a great crowd following, among them a Soothsayer
Is so possess'd with guilt: come from thy ward,
In the most terrible and nimble stroke
O, say so, and so be!
readiness is all: since no man has aught of what he
If this man come to good.
let me be boiled to death with melancholy.
Go fetch me something: I'll break ope the gate.
So, now you're fairly seated. Gentlemen,
Alas, poor country!
If I may trust the flattering truth of sleep,
Exeunt
And thou art all my child. Towards Florence is he?
And by relating tales of others' griefs,
My lord, where are you? what devise you on?
It were done quickly: if the assassination
Scatter'd by winds and high tempestuous gusts,
Whose joy of her is overwhelm'd like mine,
For night-owls shriek where mounting larks
This peroration with such circumstance?
Gives a letter
Flourish
I'ld give thee leave to hang it. Get thee gone.
I have offended reputation,
Satisfy me so.
Cleopatra!
Buck, buck, buck! Ay, buck; I warrant you, buck;
Of sorrow or of joy?
Why then, rejoice therefore.
I shall return before your lordship thence.
In the remembrance of a weeping queen.
And all the courses of my life do show
with you,--and you have been a man long known to me,
By darkening my clear sun. My lord, farewell.
Thy hopeful service perish too: good Cromwell,
And we his subjects sworn in all allegiance
I prithee, good Prince Hal, help me to my horse,
Bring it, I pray you, to the Porpentine;
Enter OLIVER
Sad-hearted men, much overgone with care,
In suffering thus thy brother to be slaughter'd,
That those which fly before the battle ends
If I do not, damn me.
well: thy casement I need not open, for I look
Exit First Player
To the conflicting elements exposed,
Than hope enjoy'd: by this the weary lords
By your leave, sir: I am sick till I see her.
Aboard my galley I invite you all:
So often shall the knot of us be call'd
Do with their death bury their parents' strife.
Ay, Biddy, come with me. What, man! 'tis not for
Another of these students at that time
Then, good my lord, teach your cousin to consent winking.
Strengthen'd with what apology you think
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
Virtuous and holy; chosen from above,
It is the lark that sings so out of tune,
In love whereof, half Hector stays at home;
Why, know'st thou any harm's intended towards him?
As proofs of holy writ: this may do something.
Sebastian, I have entertained thee,
Your sudden coming o'er, to play with him.
You are welcome.
believing old signs: a' brushes his hat o'
O cunning enemy, that, to catch a saint,
Behold, the French amazed vouchsafe a parle;
Enjoy your mistress, from the whom, I see,
What do you see? you see an asshead of your own, do
See, see; what a man you are now!
We are accounted poor citizens, the patricians good.
Howe'er unfortunate I miss'd my aim.
Will have it thus; my master and my lord
I have.
know this letter will make a contemplative idiot of
Hearing applause and universal shout,
Then down upon her knees she falls, weeps, sobs,
I am unarm'd; forego this vantage, Greek.
Claribel.
For a reply, at least if you make a care
'Wonder of nature,'--
We are busy; go.
The villain is o'er-raught of all my money.
I false! Thy conscience witness: Iachimo,
Is this certain?
Not changing heart with habit, I am still
Come, my masters, let us share, and then to  horse
That is my brother's plea and none of mine;
Farewell, my dearest sister, fare thee well:
Now, as thou art a gentleman of blood,
And since Lord Helicane enjoineth us,
These are the youths that thunder at a playhouse,
If you will take this audit, take this life,
Marry, sir, I have matter in my head against you;
Thy commander, Achilles. Then tell me, Patroclus,
That doit that e'er I wrested from the king,
The trust I have is in mine innocence,
O short-lived pride! Not fair? alack for woe!
O, whither hast thou led me, Egypt? See,
[Within]  Who calls there?
Envy your great deservings and good name,
I think, this coming summer, the King of Sicilia
I wear it for a memorable honour;
Enter LADY MACBETH, reading a letter
I will, lady.
For those that mingle reason with your passion
You took the moon at full, but now she's changed.
Would ruffle up your spirits and put a tongue
And, when I had it, drew myself apart
Must murder wives much better than themselves
Well fitted in arts, glorious in arms:
Fetch us in fuel; and be quick, thou'rt best,
And hath as oft a slanderous epitaph
ACT III
What! a knave too?
My reasons are most strong; and you shall know them
Believe me, there's an ill opinion spread then
How! so far?
Could not keep quiet in his conscience,
This world had air'd them: hence I took a thought,
'Faith, that's with watching; 'twill away again:
Besides, his cote, his flocks and bounds of feed
This is Ercles' vein, a tyrant's vein; a lover is
But come, young waverer, come, go with me,
Which I so often owe: but your ring first;
What is your pleasure with me?
Without all terms of pity. Speak; thine answer.
Here's goodly work!
sensible man, by and by a fool, and presently a
English condition. Fare ye well.
And never stir assailants.
not strange that sheeps' guts should hale souls out
So good, so noble and so true a master?
In seeking tales and informations
thankful: let me stay the growth of his beard, if
nearer to his reverence.
word; but see how I lay the dust with my tears.
Why, how now, Stephano!
labour and effect one thing specially.
Against my life: the minute of their plot
the middle on's face?
And found her wondrous cold; but I sent to her,
Than you have heard him brag to you he will.
kill King Pericles; and if I do it not, I am sure to
men, though it be the getting of children. Here
but hurt not.
Had he his hurts before?
'Tis he,'tis he: O, he is grown most kind of late.
Of worthy Frenchmen: let higher Italy,--
Why should their liberty than ours be more?
What should he say? We wept after her hearse,
Still neighbour mine. My ships are ready and
rotten apples! You may as well say, that's a
In will peculiar and in self-admission.
Gracious triumpher in the eyes of Rome!
Meet what I would have well and it destroy!
No, my good lord; therefore be patient.
Enter CLEOPATRA and her maids aloft, with CHARMIAN and IRAS
Now, Rouen, I'll shake thy bulwarks to the ground.
Go, count thy way with sighs; I mine with groans.
Close at the heels of her virtues.
from my shoulder to my heel with no greater a run
And in compassion weep the fire out;
You are contented to be led in triumph
speak truest not truer than Troilus.
Exit
Who give their eyes the liberty of gazing.
If he govern the country, you are bound to him
Why, what a shame was this! Did my commission
I am your husband, if you like of me.
If thou proceed in this thy insolence.
SCENE I. Venice. A court of justice.
So to the laws at large I write my name:
Well you deserve: they well deserve to have,
Drive them from Orleans and be immortalized.
Since every Jack became a gentleman
Question it, Horatio.
O, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear:
Anon, anon, sir.
They cannot budge till your release. The king,
Come to the matter.
Who comes so fast in silence of the night?
But wherefore weeps Warwick, my valiant son?
Your grace is noble:
As you did love, but as you fear'd him.
To bring him here alone; although perhaps
Why do you stir so early?
Poison, or fire, or suffocating streams,
Women will love her, that she is a woman
your grace: for trouble being gone, comfort should
Always excepted my dear Claudio.
good soldiers and tall fellows; and when Mistress
Exeunt ISABELLA, LUCIO, and Provost
Upon that were my thoughts tiring, when we
And I confess besides I am no maid:
The Dian of that time so doth my wife
I' the end admire, where ladies shall be frighted,
I'll fetch a turn about the garden, pitying
And I'll renew me in his fall. But, hark!
In that good path that I would wish it go,
But howsoe'er, no simple man that sees
Mortal, to cut it off; to cure it, easy.
acquaintance?
So I have. Farewell
Gloucester. Seek out where thy father is, that he
Enter PAROLLES
Be gone, I say; for, till you do return,
He would not!
and my cold blood, I am of your humour for that: I
Command in Anjou what your honour pleases.
Be playfellows to keep you company!
Peace-a your tongue. Speak-a your tale.
Else, surely, his had equall'd.
Horns winded within
will not, come when you are next prepared for.
I will show myself highly fed and lowly taught: I
Venetia, Venetia,
Sir, Mark Antony
Lovers and madmen have such seething brains,
Could not be wedged in more: I am stifled
O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
To LAERTES
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
We shall have a rare letter from him: but you'll
Were jocund, and supposed their state was sure,
point and choke a daw withal. You have no stomach,
[Aside]  The Lord increase this business!
Who's there?
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
And, to conclude, reproach and beggary
E'er the blither for their drouth.
Post speedily to my lord your husband; show him
All prompting me how fair young Hero is,
Exit
I have one myself,
[Singing]
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Who thunders to his captives blood and death,
Look on my George; I am a gentleman:
Night hath been too brief.
thou shalt find the best king of good fellows.
Hear while I speak it, love:
Then, brother John of Lancaster, to you
That we may wake the king: he hath slept long.
Marry, that did I.
Good signiors both, when shall we laugh? say, when?
his wife; 'tis none of his own getting. Horns?
Will I for ever and my faction wear,
run into, in that it is a thing of his own search
Which was thrust forth of Milan, who most strangely
shower of rain as well as Jove.
When this was now a king, and now is clay?
Thy mother rather feel thy pride than fear
Madam, I am most apt to embrace your offer.
Let gentleness my strong enforcement be:
That you behold the while. Your guests are coming:
serve the world for no honest use; therefore you
And neither by treason nor hostility
Let it fall rather, though the fork invade
A halting sonnet of his own pure brain,
Enter PROSPERO and MIRANDA
Enter PARIS, and his Page bearing flowers and a torch
the flow o' the Nile
Go, Mistress Ford,
When I am absent, then lie with my wife.
was up so early: he cannot choose but take this
I'll take it from thee; and, good boy, good night.
But penetrable to your. kind entreats,
Sometime she gallops o'er a courtier's nose,
To front this present time.
I will, my lord.
Is it my fault that I was Geffrey's son?
For you to laugh and leap and say you are merry,
Noble Menenius,
Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy.
No, page: it is an epilogue or discourse, to make plain
bosom, if ever man went to Arthur's bosom. A' made
O lamentable day!
And not the very king. I have two boys
Where Charles the Great, having subdued the Saxons,
a man doth of a Death's-head or a memento mori: I
and grant of the whole table. He'll go, he says,
Your children were vexation to your youth,
For princes should be free.
By this means shall we sound what skill she hath.
You gods, reward them!
And I should be obscured.
That bear this mutual heavy load of moan,
At Antium.
Help! help, ho! help! O lady, speak again!
Good even, Audrey.
O, peace, Paulina!
Sitting down
Sons,
The king from Eltham I intend to steal
Nor no one here; for curses never pass
If either of you both love Katharina,
To the Fool
The meered question: 'twas a shame no less
O, ho, monster! we know what belongs to a frippery.
He should have worn the horns on his head.
Your honours shall perceive how I will work
stockings, and every officer his wedding-garment on?
Would I perform, if I might have my will;
Left in the conduct of the bold Iago,
By Jove, if ever I knew man, 'twas you.
SCENE V. Cymbeline's tent.
The earth had not a hole to hide this deed.
In music, letters; who hath gain'd
The net has fall'n upon me! I shall perish
Of many faces, eyes and hearts,
I will teach the children their behaviors; and I
More honourable state, more courtship lives
Off with that bauble, throw it under-foot.
Our spoils he kick'd at,
though I could not with such estimable wonder
That bottled spider, that foul bunch-back'd toad!
More than indeed belong'd to such a trifle,
Enter PUCK
You would not hear me,
Think of me as you please. I leave my duty a little
Why, he is so made on here within, as if he were son
How now! where's thy master? at my cousin
Do grace to Caesar's corpse, and grace his speech
Why ever wast thou lovely in my eyes?
Well, I say no: and therefore for assurance
May counterpoise this rich and precious gift?
Now, Decius Brutus, yours: now yours, Metellus;
Though France himself and such another neighbour
deceiving father of a deceitful son.
A grandam's name is little less in love
He durst not sit there, had your father lived.
My Lord Northumberland, see them dispatch'd.
But if I live, his feigned ecstasies
Will you go to them? I will bring you thither.
The borrow'd majesty, of England here.
Of modern seeming do prefer against him.
Nay, gentle Romeo, we must have you dance.
His own impatience
Under the hoofs of vaunting enemies,
Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,
And live you yet?
Where's Dolabella,
To your own person: nay, when I have a suit
Hark! he is arrived.
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
forget their faults, I drink to you.
sir John!' quoth I	'what, man! be o' good
Why it hath bay windows transparent as barricadoes,
lost hair of another man.
I will come home to you; or, if you will,
But may imagine how the bird was dead,
[Within]                 Come back: what mean you?
My true love's passion: therefore pardon me,
Was done to death? and more than so, my father,
Sir, step you forth;
My learn'd lord cardinal,
Can truly say he gives, if he receives:
And art almost an alien to the hearts
Get you some of this distilled Carduus Benedictus,
As if those organs had deceptious functions,
I must perforce. Farewell.
I am the drudge and toil in your delight,
Proceeded to you; therefore take your honours.
all his ancestors that come after him may: they may
Ready, with every nod, to tumble down
Though it be honest, it is never good
If it be true that I interpret false,
Taking thy part, hath rush'd aside the law,
Whether by device or no, the heavens can tell:
For Edward my son, which was Prince of Wales,
Let me entreat you.
And when the fit was on him, I did mark
As with a saint.
Do you observe this, Hostilius?
And clamour moisten'd: then away she started
it is done, thou art the pandar to her dishonour and
There yours, Lord Scroop of Masham; and, sir knight,
Enter MARGARELON
of the young gentleman gives him out to be of good
Of this yet scarce-cold battle, at this instant
Let's dry our eyes: and thus far hear me, Cromwell;
Thou shouldst attempt it. Come now, keep thine oath;
Faith, we met, and found the quarrel was upon the
And crossly to thy good all fortune goes.
giddy offences as he hath generally taxed their
But go thy ways; go, give that changing piece
Never to be infected with delight,
Exit CURIO. Music plays
for true, that he's so full of gold?
If thou engrossest all the griefs are thine,
I pray, my lord, pardon me; I took ye for my lord
Whiles we stood here securing your repose,
Of my dug and felt it bitter, pretty fool,
love a ballad but even too well, if it be doleful
find the thief; and no satisfaction, no revenge:
The time will come when thou shalt wish for me
A better witness back than words, which we,
And hire those horses; I'll be with thee straight.
Come, put mine armour on; give me my staff.
As iron to adamant, as earth to the centre,
And sent our sons and husbands captivate.
Hath sent a letter to his father's house.
When you have well deserved ten times as much
Wait else at door, a fellow-counsellor,
Belong you to the Lady Olivia, friends?
Heaven give your spirits comfort!
Or gather wealth, I care not, with what envy:
Outsells them all; I love her therefore: but
Of France and England, did this king succeed;
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
Of all the under fiends. But if so be
With such a hell of pain and world of charge,
And you must cut this flesh from off his breast:
Benedick, Don John, and all the gallants of the
What are you then determined to do?
all. Wither, garden; and be henceforth a
Some five and twenty years; and then we mask'd.
Is smother'd in surmise, and nothing is
slew him. There is tears for his love; joy for his
A most poor issue?
But how long fairly shall her sweet lie last?
Beggars, that come unto my father's door,
Why, madam, have I offer'd love for this
Is not that he?
Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you;
We being strangers here, how darest thou trust
Madam, I'll take my leave.
An't be any way, it must be with valour; for policy
You have no children, butchers! if you had,
SCENE II. A prison.
Your friends at Pomfret, they do need the priest;
Confusion fall--
Why that the naked, poor and mangled Peace,
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
Bend thoughts and wits to achieve her. Thus it stands:
But, till the king come forth, and not till then,
But how, if that fly had a father and mother?
Why, my good lord, you need not fear;
And here comes Clifford to deny their bail.
I'll make him send for Lucius his son;
But though we think it so, it is no matter:
I hear that news, my lord.
Making them proud of his humility,
Forbear your conference with the noble duke.
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
nor reason?
What is't, my lord? we will.
On his command: he would not suffer me
My life, my joy, my food, my all the world!
That, face to face and royal eye to eye,
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Can you remember what I call'd the man?
If it might please you, to enforce no further
It does abhor me now I speak the word;
I here could pluck his highness' frown upon you
Caesar sits down in Alexandria; where
Even with the speediest expedition
Nay, either tell me where thou hast been, or I will
upon the table and says 'God send me no need of
Perish the man whose mind is backward now!
And his whole kingdom into desolation.
should not pass here; no, though it were as virtuous
Hast thou given all to thy two daughters?
Of what that want might ruin.
o with me to the duchess.
Unto the wished haven of my bliss.
The union of your bed with weeds so loathly
Peace! the charm's wound up.
I cry you mercy.
Now, masters, draw.
nayword, and make him a common recreation, do not
Will you speak well of him that kill'd your cousin?
We shall, my lord,
Exeunt the followers of SATURNINUS
O thou goddess,
Turn you where your lady is
The Count Melun is slain; the English lords
Like motes and shadows see them move awhile;
To shepherds looking on their silly sheep,
Save that riotous youth, with dangerous sense,
She that accuses him of fornication,
To keep, until your further time of trial.
replication should be made by the son of a king?
Caesar, I will:
But I shall lose the grounds I work upon.
'Jesu maintain your royal excellence!'
Which signify what hate they bear their emperor
I honour'd him, I loved him, and will weep
well-favoured and he speaks very shrewishly; one
O, this it is that makes your lady mourn!
I will say nothing.
Bear from hence his body;
Well, lords, we have not got that which we have:
But, like a shrew, you first begin to brawl.
And with a green and yellow melancholy
He talks of wood: it is some carpenter.
Thou shamest to acknowledge me in misery.
ANTIPHOLUS
Ay, in despite of all that shall withstand you.
Well, I perceive I must be fain to bear with you.
so good a continuer. But keep your way, i' God's
A maid-child call'd Marina; who, O goddess,
Exeunt Clown, FABIAN, SIR TOBY BELCH, and SIR ANDREW
Raised by your populous troops: but you are come
Like to the senators of the antique Rome,
Will to your mother, to entreat of her
And faintly through a rusty beaver peeps:
They stand at the door, master; bid them welcome hither.
Hold, Warwick, seek thee out some other chase,
If thou hadst fear'd to break an oath by Him,
The fields are fragrant and the woods are green:
But stay'd and made the western welkin blush,
Grieve not that I am fallen to this for you;
Assure yourself, after our ship did split,
Companions to our person and will fit you
And, had I first been put to speak my mind,
How have I sworn!
And doubling that, most holy. Your means abroad,
Now do you know the reason of this haste.
My heart hath one poor string to stay it by,
It is a mind
call him forth.
Prithee, Apemantus, read me the superscription of
with a grace?
Good morrow, sir. You lay out too much pains
Enter PROTEUS and LAUNCE
Ay, fool.
But Moyses and Valerius follow him.
Your high displeasure: all this uttered
To say I have done no harm?
And yet not so; since, I am sure, my love's
List.
Arm, arm, you heavens, against these perjured kings!
corner-stone?
Yonder is Silvia; and Silvia's mine.
In your fine frame hath love no quality?
And that we are contented Caesar shall
For it was sometime target to a king;
It must be 'se offendendo;' it cannot be else. For
We are hither come to offer you our service.
If thou but think'st him wrong'd and makest his ear
It seems not meet, nor wholesome to my place,
So please my lord the duke and all the court
My conscience bids me ask--wherefore you have
Of all the fair resort of gentlemen
That ever graced me in thy company?
And I will kiss thy foot: I prithee, be my god.
That had a heart to love, and in that heart
like the plot, Trinculo?
A many fools, that stand in better place,
Achilles shall have word of this intent;
must be content.
Dumain is mine, as sure as bark on tree.
Hang nothing but a calf's-skin, most sweet lout.
younger brothers, revolted tapsters and ostlers
But thy unkindness shall his death draw out
Love, charity, obedience, and true duty!
Let us make ready straight.
Right, I mean you.
Good, now, hold thy tongue.
Fie, painted rhetoric! O, she needs it not:
Hamlet the Dane.
So stakes me to the ground I cannot move.
You cannot with such freedom purge yourself,
Here, at your lordship's service.
And help to arm me. Leave me, I say.
Claudio shall render me a dear account. As you
you, four and twenty pound.
Welcome, brave Hector; welcome, princes all.
Fear me not.
Is that the law?
Set a fair fashion on our entertainment,
no money at all and a little more wit, return again to Venice.
your foins.
La you, an you speak ill of the devil, how he takes
I did not entertain thee as thou art.
That purpose merriment. But fare you well:
What, man! 'tis a night of revels: the gallants
Marry, sir, she's the kitchen wench and all grease;
First, an it like you, the house is a respected
Than of his outward show; which, God he knows,
What watchful cares do interpose themselves
Fain would mine eyes be witness with mine ears,
As good to wink, sweet love, as look on night.
is Anne Page, which is daughter to Master Thomas
How all occasions do inform against me,
hereafter, and aim better at me by that I now will
O monstrous traitor! I arrest thee, York,
her
should be like the case!
in paying it, it is impossible I should live, all
Do not run away.
She false with Cassio!--did you say with Cassio?
All that you speak shows fair.
That little thinks she has been sluiced in's absence
He is called Aunchient Pistol.
Thou canst not speak too much; I have deserved
The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
have a cake out of the wheat must needs tarry the grinding.
Exit
Is telling you that I am poor of thanks
I pray thee, let us go and find him out
That he which hath your noble father slain
that you have said.
Take it on her. Camillo and Polixenes
than between jet and ivory; more between your bloods
I do not speak of flight, of fear, of death,
O, had it been a stranger, not my child,
And call thy husband hither.
Staying him
Yet he most Christian-like laments his death:
Come on, you madcap, I'll to the alehouse with you
Ambassadors from Harry King of England
Things won are done; joy's soul lies in the doing.
O noble emperor, do not fight by sea;
Re-enter BOYET
With like advantage on the other side;
That thou consent to marry us to-day.
All pride is willing pride, and yours is so.
I had it of him: pardon me, Bassanio;
Being naked, sick, nor fane nor Capitol,
Prove them, and I lie open to the law:
That thou for truth givest out are landed here?
Exeunt
Enter MORTIMER, brought in a chair, and Gaolers
on a pole, or no. Take him away, and behead him.
The good time of day to you, sir.
God's will and his pleasure, captain, I beseech you
Enter FERDINAND king of Navarre, BIRON, LONGAVILLE and DUMAIN
Thisby, the flowers of odious savours sweet,--
bridegroom wants
You may, sir.
So, Bassianus, you have play'd your prize:
To merit bliss by making me despair:
And last so long enough!
Blow off thy cap; praise his most vicious strain,
For I upon this bank will rest my head.
You have obtain'd it.
And evils imminent; and on her knee
Let's to the Capitol. Would half my wealth
SCENE III. A highway between Rome and Antium.
In supplication nod: and my young boy
What noise? who calls on Hamlet?
Thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
Master doctor, my daughter is in green: when you
Sound, trumpets; and set forward, combatants.
I bear unto the banish'd Valentine,
of travellers.
come. I tell you for good vill: adieu.
and I profess requital to a hair's breadth; not
Till he come home again, I would forbear.
Here, mighty Theseus.
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
Know you any, count?
Shall Rome,  and c. Speak, strike, redress!
We are undone, lady, we are undone!
To-night, to-night. But, mistress, do you know the
O, good! convey? conveyers are you all,
It is to be all made of faith and service;
To our most fair and princely cousin Katharine;
For, I presume, brave Hector would not lose
I have no more to reckon, he to spend.
fry of fornication is at door! On my Christian
Disgracing of these colours that I wear
By that time will our book, I think, be drawn
look upon his removedness; from whom I have this
Sit thee down, Clitus: slaying is the word;
Your most sweet voices: now you have left
Do but behold yon poor and starved band,
That one body should be fill'd
For Suffolk, he that can do all in all
Enter another Messenger
The advantage of the time prompts me aloud
Attend the lords of France and Burgundy, Gloucester.
God and Saint George! Richmond and victory!
I, sir! ne'er a whit.
I'll kiss each several paper for amends.
That all the abhorred things o' the earth amend
What's near it with it: it is a massy wheel,
And tear the stain'd skin off my harlot-brow
As little skill to fear as I have purpose
One that before the judgement carries poor souls to hell.
And one Deformed is one of them: I know him; a'
Blind with the pin and web but theirs, theirs only,
I hope all's for the best.
Or I'll knock you o'er the mazzard.
He will deserve more.
And let us swear our resolution.
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
But look thou stay not till the watch be set,
Are you not a strumpet?
Who am no more but as the tops of trees,
From me he got it. if thy greatness will
In my profession? Knighthoods and honours, borne
My emperor hath wrote, I must from hence;
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
But me more good, to see so great a lord
For fear thou shouldst lose thy tongue.
A pleasing cordial, princely Buckingham,
Exit POLONIUS
To make my heart her vassal.
Your safety, for the which myself and them
It is my birth-day:
Rare as you seem to be.
Sent from our uncle Duke of Burgundy.
Hark you! they come this way.
For making him egregiously an ass
Traitor, restore Lavinia to the emperor.
sayings, the Sisters Three and such branches of
How far that little candle throws his beams!
You are full of heavenly stuff, and bear the inventory
And friendship shall combine, and brotherhood:
What, wouldst thou have me go and beg my food?
Here comes the lord.
To-morrow do I meet thee, fell as death;
you can move him.
We should by this, to all our lamentation,
And cloister thee in some religious house:
Teach me, thy tempted subject, to excuse it!
These drums! these trumpets, flutes! what!
Come hither, boy; come, come, and learn of us
will keep the house.
Let the great gods,
He came too late, the ship was under sail:
With purpose to be dress'd in an opinion
I pray you, good Bassanio, let me know it;
He's banish'd, and it shall be so.
To have the expense and waste of his revenues.
We had like to have had our two noses snapped off
Leave not the mansion so long tenantless,
Worthy the owner, and the owner it.
Your own renowned knowledge; quite forego
Is't possible?
[Aside to MISTRESS QUICKLY]  'Tis a great charge to
I'll not endure it: you forget yourself,
Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits,
good my lord, do not recompense me in making me a cuckold.
ale-houses, and bid those that are drunk get them to bed.
Have broken with the king; who hath so far
Hath nobly held; our sever'd navy too
This is a soldier's kiss: rebukeable
If the duke continue these favours towards you,
Might with a sally of the very town
And now worth nothing? Shall I have the thought
I am bound by oath, and therefore pardon me.
Repair those violent harms that my two sisters
tavern and tavern: but the sack that thou hast
Go, play, boy, play: thy mother plays, and I
Come, go along, and see the truth hereof;
A Turkish fleet, and bearing up to Cyprus.
In every lineament, branch, shape, and form:
You peasant swain! you whoreson malt-horse drudge!
Enter ULYSSES
To lay our service freely at your feet,
How comes this trick upon him?
She takes the staff in her mouth, and guides it with her stumps, and writes
What say'st thou, my dear nurse?
I did receive fair speechless messages:
is to pleasure you, coz. Can you love the maid?
Statilius show'd the torch-light, but, my lord,
And there the little souls of Edward's children
Or feed on nourishing dishes, or keep you warm,
look after it.
And let them grapple: O, the blood more stirs
heart is full of woe:' O, play me some merry dump,
right cheek
And truly, as I hope to live.
Exit THURIO
Recantation! My lord! my master!
ANTIPHOLUS
Live, like Diana's priest, betwixt cold sheets,
Ulysses,
Aside
And say withal I think he held the right.
Lies in his hamstring, and doth think it rich
And confident from foreign purposes,
Enter BERTRAM
'Twas full of darnel; do you like the taste?
will come a time. I never knew a woman so dote upon
No, sir, Helen: could you not find out that by her
Thy hateful life.
besides, possessed with the glanders and like to mose
Never hung poison on a fouler toad.
Madam, I was thinking with what manners I might
Embowell'd will I see thee by and by:
This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch,
Enter AENEAS and Trojans
For you are spell-stopp'd.
reason: thou seest I am pacified still. Nay,
Exeunt severally
Joy, gentle friends! joy and fresh days of love
[Sings]
Pray, sir, be patient: 'tis as much impossible--
Sir Toby, there you lie.
Of gold and jewels that I bobb'd from him,
will so fashion the matter that Hero shall be
My father was attached, not attainted,
Thus it is: the Volsces have an army forth; against
Lingering perdition, worse than any death
That can from Hector bring his honour off,
To Caesar I will speak what you shall please,
For God's sake, lords, give signal to the fight.
Thy words are but as thoughts; therefore, be bold.
I think she doth; and that's her cause of sorrow.
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night sweet prince:
Nay, sometime hangs both thief and true man: what
Dost thou hear, Hal? never call a true piece of
It would not out at windows nor at doors.
Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his trade, that
I come from the worthy Achilles,--
May she give that?
of a lazar, so I were not Menelaus! Hey-day!
With purpose presently to leave this war.
me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours.
Thou shalt have nothing but the forfeiture,
To satisfy my lady.
And thereupon give me your daughter.
Be born another such.
And Richard falls in height of all his pride.
Come, we'll to sleep. My strange and self-abuse
solidares for thee: good boy, wink at me, and say
Pray God, he keep his oath!
As many and as well-born bloods as those,--
Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright,
A grumbling groom, and that the girl shall find.
Do so, we'll speak to them; and to-night I'll force
Friend, we understand not one another: I am too
A parley sounded
Unsheathe your sword, good father; cry 'Saint George!'
What you would ask me, that I should deny,
FALSTAFF hides himself
I would thou hadst done so by Claudio.
Too full of foolish pity, and Gloucester's show
I will dispatch you severally; you to Lord Lucius;
To comfort thee, though thou art banished.
Then homeward every man attach the hand
ANNE's train.
Makes heaven drowsy with the harmony.
And hither hale that misbelieving Moor,
Whose leisure I have stay'd, have given him time
Though in your state of honour I am perfect.
We'll hunt no more to-day, nor seek for danger
ANTIPHOLUS
So say we too, but not by Edward's wife;
Unknown to the beginning.
Exit
And makes each petty artery in this body
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
The palace full of tongues, of eyes, and ears:
I pray thee, stay a while: I hope my holy humour
ACT II
I'll tell thee, Suffolk, why I am unmeet:
Are stored with corn to make your needy bread,
The parents live, whose children thou hast butcher'd,
Did to thy father, steep'd in Rutland's blood,--
But, I protest, I love to hear him lie
Cuckoo, cuckoo: O word of fear,
This avarice
With the Duke of Suffolk.
Clifford, ask mercy and obtain no grace.
I know she is an irksome brawling scold:
Sirrah, your father's dead;
Ay: the heavens hear me!
Than that which withering on the virgin thorn
Madam, you wander from the good we aim at.
If love make me forsworn, how shall I swear to love?
And Walter's dagger was not come from sheathing:
will tell you.
And their rough carriage so ridiculous,
You, mistress, all this coil is 'long of you:
Here comes a spirit of his, and to torment me
Exeunt
Go thou, and like an executioner,
As from her lord, her governor, her king.
At Christmas I no more desire a rose
hands and they unwashed too, 'tis a foul thing.
Wherefore they do it: they could be content
More hateful than the foul expulsion is
Exit Messenger
As thou'rt a man,
Because Love is blind. O, that you had mine eyes;
To visit the next room, I'll presently
Nay, but do, then;
Enter a Knight; he passes over, and his Squire presents his shield to the Princess
Thus we set on, Camillo, to the sea-side.
Know you before whom, sir?
Why should she write to Edmund? Might not you
Seal up your lips, and give no words but mum:
trimmed, rushes strewed, cobwebs swept; the
Enter two Gentlemen
Methinks he should the sooner pay his debts,
Sir, if it please your honour, this is not so.
Exit
In stamps that are forbid: 'tis all as easy
As fit the bridal. Beshrew me much, Emilia,
About it, gentlemen!
impediment most profitably removed, without the
peach-coloured satin, which now peaches him a
Exeunt ANTONY and TREBONIUS
O, now you look like Hubert! all this while
Your wit makes wise things foolish: when we greet,
vinegar and pepper in't.
Than doth, within a dull, stale, tired bed,
Let us not wrangle: bid them move away;
Is in the field, and still his power increaseth.
The heart that conn'd them.
stolen out of other affairs; but I will attend you awhile.
but that a wise burgher put in for them.
And whilst a field should be dispatch'd and fought,
With striving less to be so; lesser had been
everlasting liberty if I tell you of it; for he
Hang him, dishonest varlet! we cannot misuse him enough.
Descend, and open your uncharged ports:
I have no ears to his request. The queen
Fellow Grumio!
Proceeded further; cut me off the heads
And yet you never swum the Hellespont.
After so many hours, lives, speeches spent,
In some of our best ports, and are at point
I shall remember:
Stay, you imperfect speakers, tell me more:
And all out of an empty coffer:
And I mine.
Service.
with your eyes. Take notice that I am in Cambria,
Ah, my good lord, what have I seen to-night!
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
as the morality of imprisonment. What's thy
Why, thou didst conclude hairy men plain dealers without wit.
Here, in the thigh: can I bear that with patience.
For judgment only doth belong to thee.
Let Antony look over Caesar's head
So in approof lives not his epitaph
in peril of my life with the edge of a feather-bed;
This shall ye do, so help you righteous God!
directions in the true disciplines of the wars, look
Or who should study to prefer a peace.
But are you flesh and blood?
That Cassio's not alive.
Nay, do not fly; I think we have watch'd you now
Presenting HORTENSIO
And all the better is it for the maid:
So distribution should undo excess,
Cry 'holla' to thy tongue, I prithee; it curvets
If ever any grudge were lodged between us;
Nay, go not back.
And, by despairing, shouldst thou stand excused;
Have you no modesty, no maiden shame,
Was guilty of it. Farewell worthy lord!
His burthenous taxations notwithstanding,
For testimony whereof, one in the prison,
Within the belt of rule.
And that bare vowel 'I' shall poison more
And seem'd I ever otherwise to you?
And heard thee murmur tales of iron wars;
Go to the king; and let there be impawn'd
And will with all expedience charge on us.
And yet, thy wealth being forfeit to the state,
What drink'st thou oft, instead of homage sweet,
Do you think so?
'His meanest garment!'
Why, thou say'st true; it is a paltry cap,
Where lies he?
particular prosperity, and love thee no worse than
Wish me partaker in thy happiness
In dreadful trial of our kingdom's king!
A woman, and thy aunt, great king; 'tis I.
What watch the king keeps to maintain the peace,
Peace! no more.
his goods:' right; many a man has good horns, and
How now! what news?
condition of blood, you should so know me. The
I'll to the queen: please you,
This passion, and the death of a dear friend, would
Voice, gait and action of a gentlewoman:
Laying his hand on his sword
roast your goose.
How now, my lord! is't not after midnight?
Would so offend a virgin, and extort
Why, so can I, or so can any man;
A man that loves not me, nor none of you.
Why then, thus it is:
Which fourteen hundred years ago were nail'd
Oh for our father, for our dear lord Clarence!
Why, sir, give the gods a thankful sacrifice. When
On Lammas-eve at night shall she be fourteen;
Are you fast married? Be assured of this,
Then march to Paris, royal Charles of France,
My heart's deep languor and my soul's sad tears:
through Frogmore: I will bring thee where Mistress
No, great king:
That spits forth death and mountains, rocks and seas,
As you must needs, for you all clapp'd your hands
Whereto constrain'd by her infirmity,
And none your foes but such as shall pretend
Expect even here, where is a kingly patient:
Have with you. I would rather hear them scold than fight.
Enter IMOGEN
No sovereignty;--
In thy fats our cares be drown'd,
This is not she. O madness of discourse,
Repair there to me.
heart cannot come by her; in heart you love her,
Whose limbs were made in England, show us here
his cause be wrong, our obedience to the king wipes
He doth revive again: madam, be patient.
That plays thee music? Gentle knave, good night;
forty thousand fathom above water, and sung this
And daily new exactions are devised,
But, gentle sir, methinks you walk like a stranger:
How fares our gracious lady?
And if I did but stir out of my bed,
Of many kings. If there come truth from them--
Your brother's son shall never reign our king;
I would have left it on the board so soon
That I am sudden sick: quick, and return.
This to my cousin Scroop, and all the rest
rose; it was the death of him.
While greasy Joan doth keel the pot.
Which, as a grise or step, may help these lovers
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and foe,
A little happier than my wretched father:
horse upon our own wings, and to rend our own soldiers!
Enter ALEXAS, from OCTAVIUS CAESAR
And in the sacred Pantheon her espouse:
Those that are in extremity of either are abominable
knavery. If he may be conveniently delivered, I
And lay your hands again upon my sword:
Let's tune, and to it lustily awhile.
Enter EMILIA
Even such a passion doth embrace my bosom:
And where care lodges, sleep will never lie;
Come, cousin, I am sure you love the gentleman.
Five moons!
Yet something leads me forth.
No.
Would this report become? But I consider,
But, since I am a dog, beware my fangs:
Is this wind westerly that blows?
I writ at random, very doubtfully.
Whiles that his mountain sire, on mountain standing,
go away merry; but they enter my mistress' house
SCENE II. The forest.
we meet in the city, we shall be dogged with
Why?
An you call him a-down-a.
I hope, sir, I have your good will to have mine own
acknowledge itself hereafter, it may compel him to
It must be your imagination then, and not theirs.
this garment through the rough seams of the waters:
Yes, as I love the woman that wrong'd him.
That it intends to do? My lord of Burgundy,
When we are old as you? when we shall hear
As perfectly is ours as yours, my lord;
And brought Prince Henry in their company;
Approacheth, to confer about some matter.
Than to be butcher of an innocent child.
Whoever shoots at him, I set him there;
No less in pity than his glory which
A madman so long, now a fool. What, think'st
The Moor is of a free and open nature,
Name them.
Worthy enough a herdsman: yea, him too,
A nobler man, a braver warrior,
Here art thou in appointment fresh and fair,
My lord, I like not of this flight of Edward's;
He hath a drug of mine; I pray his absence
See here, my friends and loving countrymen,
But that my resolution helps me. Milford,
The effects of his fond jealousies so grieving
My Lord of Winchester, you are a little,
--what will you adventure
But these cannot I command to any utterance of
Advise him.
the world I fill up a place, which may be better
Invited her to supper: she replied,
Rousillon, a foolish idle boy, but for all that very
Meet I an infant of the house of York,
What you profess.
By the eternal God, whose name and power
So will the queen, that living held him dear.
Enter Soldiers, with the body of JOHN TALBOT
A sorry breakfast for my lord protector.
SCENE IV. Tyre. A room in the Governor's house.
terms of my honour precise: I, I, I myself
step on. They say he has been fencer to the Sophy.
bluntly: that which ordinary men are fit for, I am
With one appearing hair, that will not follow
Which I, disdaining, scorn'd; and craved death,
If my sight fail not,
it, but he is resolute. I'll tell thee, Charles:
By gar, with all my heart. He promise to bring me
You weigh me not? O, that's you care not for me.
It is the best horse of Europe.
Enter HELICANUS and ESCANES
O thou Othello, thou wert once so good,
Lest I be taken: not the imperious show
You are the better at proverbs, by how much 'A
Enter Clown
I shall, my liege.
Exit SILVIA, with attendants
More light, you knaves; and turn the tables up,
All but new things disdain; whose judgments are
As in this king.
Cousin of Buckingham, and you sage, grave men,
Prepare to lodge their companies to-night.
Which though myself would gladly have embraced,
Vow, alack, for youth unmeet,
And then to Leonato's we will go.
To take the indisposed and sickly fit
mastership?
I fear, a madness held me: this must crave,
Paris should do some vengeance on the Greeks:
And we, poor mates, stand on the dying deck,
Nay, but regard him well.
As meet to be an emperor's counsellor.
Here, sir; what is your pleasure?
And hears it roar beneath.
Arm you against your other enemies,
Much good do it unto thy gentle heart!
Among the thorns and dangers of this world.
And shortly must I fell it: tell my friends,
Forbid the sun to enter, like favourites,
Serves for the matter that is then born in't.
And rapt in secret studies. Thy false uncle--
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
Nothing but his report.
An if you do, you will but make it blush
And every word in it a gaping wound,
I take my leave at once.
On's brows: Menenius, he comes the third time home
His hour is almost past.
Deny your love, so rich within his soul,
In execution.
For bloody power to rush upon your peace.
but with nobility and tranquillity, burgomasters and
As you are old and reverend, you should be wise.
And lead you even to death: meantime forbear,
Exit Messenger
Where is the best and safest passage in?
What then?
Gracious my lord, hard by here is a hovel;
'Tis the same: high-steward.
me your good report to the prince my master.
It is my lady, O, it is my love!
Exeunt
Please it your majesty, this is the man
For many weary months.
And in this mist at all adventures go.
Why, madam, if I were your father's dog,
for the phrase!
Which seem'd to tell them his remembrance lay
Of these delated articles allow.
principal itself not much the worse: away with 't!
matter in the ditty, yet the note was very
I think he will stand very strong with us.
How Thaliard came full bent with sin
My husband!
I tell thee, fellow, there are none want eyes to
I tell thee truly, herald,
Will prove as bitter, black, and tragical.
A crew of patches, rude mechanicals,
to this foolery, as it appears he hath, he is no
By fishermen of Corinth, as we thought.
Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
And hath bereft thee of thy life too late!
Let there be some more test made of my metal,
Be he the fire, I'll be the yielding water:
If he be dead, brave Talbot, then adieu!
Though you hear now, too late--yet now's a time--
It is silliness to live when to live is torment; and
Seize thee that list: if once I find thee ranging,
live like a poor gentleman born.
O, why should wrath be mute, and fury dumb?
And see how one another lends content
Unto his princely brother presently?
In place of greater state. I'll meet you in the valleys.
A very dishonest paltry boy, and more a coward than
No; for he could not so resign his crown
Did slay this Fortinbras; who by a seal'd compact,
I'll have the cudgel hallowed and hung o'er the
She is sad and passionate at your highness' tent.
bastard children than war's a destroyer of men.
Helen's cheek, but not her heart,
Do more than counterpoise a full third part
And in this thought they find a kind of ease,
a goodly count, Count Comfect; a sweet gallant,
How mean you, sir? I pretty, and my saying apt? or
Among the people gather up a tenth.
And like her most whose merit most shall be:
God made him, and therefore let him pass for a man.
He will to his Egyptian dish again: then shall the
That they supposed I could rend bars of steel,
No reason I, since of your lives you set
I go.
Give me that hand of yours to kiss.
With unhack'd swords and helmets all unbruised,
Whether I in any just term am affined
Which rare it is to do--most praised, most loved,
Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light!
welcome dear.
He dreads his wife.
She's an adulteress; I have said with whom:
Disbursed I duly to his highness' soldiers;
Dealing with witches and with conjurers:
The absolute soldiership you have by land;
much to say 'God make me a light wench.' It is
But, soft! no bedfellow!--O god s and goddesses!
His discretion, I am sure, cannot carry his valour;
What moves Ajax thus to bay at him?
Out of self-bounty, be abused; look to't:
Gave it a judge's clerk! no, God's my judge,
No; I say nay to that.
I must be present at your conference.
Than Buckingham and his rash-levied army.
To wind, to stop, to run directly on,
the burly-boned clown in chines of beef ere thou
Thou wrong'st thyself, if thou shouldst strive to choose.
To live and burn in everlasting fire,
Where is your sister, and Hortensio's wife?
It follows not that she will love Sir Thurio.
There is no woman's sides
Not where he eats, but where he is eaten: a certain
praise, too brown for a fair praise and too little
And that to the infection of my brains
That's a degree to love.
We two will leave you: but at dinner-time,
Judge me, you gods! wrong I mine enemies?
But, master mayor, if Henry be your king,
Caesar, that hath more kings his servants than
That my discovery be not aimed at;
That sets them on: let me have way, my lord,
Plantagenet, for all the claim thou lay'st,
Obeying in commanding, and thy parts
There's language in her eye, her cheek, her lip,
I would to heaven he were!
No; he doth but mistake the truth totally.
Of semblable import,--but he hath waged
fiend; 'for the heavens, rouse up a brave mind,'
Nature's own sweet and cunning hand laid on:
Master Hume, that you be by her aloft, while we be
Is thought-sick at the act.
Yes; I do think that you might pardon him,
And show no sign of fear.
But even his mother shall uncharge the practise
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE, with a basket
Which the poor heart would fain deny, and dare not. Seyton!
To make your vessel nimble.
Hark! I hear horses.
My stay, my guide and lantern to my feet:
Immediately to us.
Tug him away: being whipp'd,
Call up the right master constable. We have here
And seize himself; I say not, slaughter him,
And practise rhetoric in your common talk;
Blushing to be encountered with a cloud.
Liege of all loiterers and malcontents,
My rapier in his bosom and withal
From out the state of hellish misery!
I shall desire you, sir, to give me leave
Who's that, I pray thee?
Richard cried 'Charge! and give no foot of ground!'
Exit
any thing and yet a fool.
But what, but what, come they to visit us?
The nonpareil of beauty!
To faithful service of your majesty.
So great fear of my name 'mongst them was spread,
now should I kiss my father; well, he weeps on. Now
Of head-piece extraordinary? lower messes
not drowned. Is the storm overblown? I hid me
Who, in his circumstance, expressly proves
[To the BASTARD]  Cousin, away for England!
And warrant limited unto my tongue.
Then let it lie for those that it concerns.
From this most bravest vessel of the world
Or ere I journey to your father's house.
Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but hate thee,
But I should think of shallows and of flats,
Told him my pilgrimage: but his flaw'd heart,
Our peace we'll ratify; seal it with feasts.
Rejoiced deliverance more. Blest pray you be,
Not letting it decline on the declined,
Drop in my neck: as it determines, so
Before the common distribution, at
To pay your present debts.
As amorous of their strokes. For her own person,
shall hear how things go; and, I warrant, to your
Have too much blood in him.
As 'twere retail'd to all posterity,
ACT I
How far off lie these armies?
Do mock their charge with snores: I have drugg'd
We'll be before our welcome.
What counsel give you? whither shall we fly?
But nature makes that mean: so, over that art
With mine own hands I give away my crown,
How is't with you?
Hold, Rosaline, this favour thou shalt wear,
Very bootless.
And you can witness with me this is true.
Let is be so: yet have I left a daughter,
Tester I'll have in pouch when thou shalt lack,
Fidele, sir. I have a kinsman who
And breathing to his breathless excellence
And something from the palace; always thought
Who's that which rings the bell?--Diablo, ho!
Weapons! arms! What 's the matter here?
Peace, sirrah!
Whilst I have gold, I'll be his steward still.
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well:
Exit
And so say I.
Then, good my lord, take to your royal self
Enter CAPULET, with JULIET and others of his house, meeting the Guests and Maskers
Shall I endure this monstrous villany?
his new doublet before Easter? with another, for
'Tis gone, and will not answer.
Though 'tis no wisdom to confess so much
Exit
dashed out with a Grecian club; yet he did what he
Thus bad begins and worse remains behind.
Quoth who?
do his worst. For you, be that you are, long; and
A goodly portly man, i' faith, and a corpulent; of a
As he is proud to do't.
Is't possible that on so little acquaintance you
And what of that?
Hark!
Exact the penalty.
Not honestly, my lord; but so covertly that no
his treading: he is able to pierce a corslet with
Poor rogues, I pray you, say.
What, amazed
To sweep the dust behind the door.
It is too true an evil: gone she is;
But if my father had not scanted me
So they must,
AEsculapius? my Galen? my heart of elder? ha! is
If he were known alive?
come within my doors! Marry, hang you! She's born
O, no, forbear! for that which we have fled
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
What you must say; that he shall not perceive
Messala!
But that I seek occasion how to rise,
Wilt thou resign them and lay down thy arms?
Haply to wive and thrive as best I may:
Talk you of young Master Launcelot?
And sudden push gives them the overthrow.
Visit his countrymen and banquet them?
Caesar, I shall.
Enter PANDARUS and Troilus's Boy, meeting
The effect of what I wrote?
Tut, man, I mean thou'lt lose the flood, and, in
Exeunt
What, what! the lustful sons of Tamora
Returns with precious jading to the bay
Stand!
Most likely, sir.
The conquest of our scarce cold conqueror,
And put it to the foil: but you, O you,
SCENE IV. Tarsus. A room in the Governor's house.
there would be none left to rail upon thee, and then
Which comes to punish us, and we punish it
It is the worst, and all, my lord, he writes.
And let me show you him that made the will.
barkest at him.
can do no more: nay, a horse cannot fetch, but only
Let me desire your company: he must come,
I'll call for clubs, if you will not away.
lamed me, I shall beg with it from door to door.
your complexion, shall keep the body of it ever
That in the natures of their lords rebel;
Whose spirits toil in frame of villanies.
A blister on his sweet tongue, with my heart,
Vail to her mistress Dian; still
Paris is lost; the state of Normandy
So I had nothing known. O, now, for ever
Think that the clearest gods, who make them honours
Unwilling I agreed. Alas! too soon,
This female bastard hence and that thou bear it
Exeunt
Attended with the pleasures of the world,
You go to seek the Lord Hamlet; there he is.
To gaze upon a ruinous monastery;
Well, I'll go with thee: provide us all things
be pold, I pray you; follow me into the pit; and
In Philoten all graceful marks,
And had no welcomes home: but he returns,
where our fate,
observance; engrossed opportunities to meet her;
One might interpret.
Here comes Brabantio and the valiant Moor.
Patroclus is a fool positive.
more tricks with Falstaff: his dissolute disease will
There shall not at your father's house these
May run into that sink, and soaking in
Why, how now, count! wherefore are you sad?
Did not the one deserve to have an heir?
I'll have no wife, Paulina.
Ever shall in safety rest.
Cuckold! Wittol!--Cuckold! the devil himself hath
Sounds and sweet airs, that give delight and hurt not.
they would whip me with their fine wits till I were
Arise, I pray you, rise:
Marry, as for Clarence, he is well repaid,
More than I seem, and less than I was born to:
With all the friends that thou, brave Earl of March,
Exit
Nay, keep your place.
Pray thee, go seek him, and bring him to my tent.
Enter a Goth, leading AARON with his Child in his arms
He was a prince.
We pout upon the morning, are unapt
My villany?
Having fully dined before.
But I attest the gods, your full consent
I am the king's friend, and will rid his foe.
A labour saved!
Then was I going prisoner to the Tower,
And bloody steel grasp'd in their ireful hands,
That here I kiss her as my sovereign queen.
O, that our fathers would applaud our loves,
Who tells us life's but breath, to trust it error.
Yes, he would give't thee, from this rank offence,
look you, be an ass and a fool and a prating
In liberty of bloody hand shall range
I never wish'd to see you sorry; now
May you a better feast never behold,
Am I not wise?
I would all the world might be cozened; for I have
And that he is a bastard, not thy son:
Hark you. far off!
For I can here disarm thee with this stick
He may mean more than we poor men do know:
What countryman? what name? what parentage?
I fear our purpose is discovered.
And Edward Duke of Bar: of lusty earls,
For, to yourself, what you do know, you must.
this hour, and your son here at home, more advanced
To CATESBY
Unto another lady of esteem:
To this great stage of fools: this a good block;
I am the most unhappy woman living.
Threatening the welkin with his big-swoln face?
'Faith, and so we should;
For interim to our studies shall relate
And try your hap against the Irishmen?
He smiles, and says his Edward is install'd;
Unarm, unarm, and do not fight to-day.
O Buckingham, now do I play the touch,
My liege, your highness now may do me good.
Was he not born of woman? The spirits that know
violent and unruly. Go you to Angelo; answer his
Sirrah, if thy captain knew I were here, he would
Have loved it too: I would not change this hue,
And that to-morrow you will bring it home.
Enter the PRINCESS, and her train, a Forester, BOYET, ROSALINE, MARIA, and KATHARINE
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Make Cressid's name the very crown of falsehood,
So do our vulgar drench their peasant limbs
Will answer in mine honour.
Please you, my lord, that honourable
By pardoning Rutland, my transgressing boy.
Yet, countrymen, O, yet hold up your heads!
Within an hour, and pacing through the forest,
as Volscians. They are rising, they are rising.
Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the grave
What he hath lost noble Macbeth hath won.
Is that an answer?
Be calm, good wind, blow not a word away
'Faith, some certain dregs of conscience are yet
Tut, tut, here is a mannerly forbearance:
But 'tis not so.
Three thousand confident, in act as many--
Having no more but thought of what thou wert,
He'll make a proper man: the best thing in him
Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but
SCENE V. The same. Another room.
I have bewept a worthy husband's death,
How with a sportful malice it was follow'd,
Exeunt BANQUO and FLEANCE
Reads
I married them; and their stol'n marriage-day
Into a thousand parts divide on man,
We must of force dispense with this decree;
TYBALT under ROMEO's arm stabs MERCUTIO, and flies with his followers
But unto thee, Alencon, and the rest;
women in men's apparel, and smell like Bucklersbury
Gall of goat, and slips of yew
Enter IAGO
I will advise you where to plant yourselves;
While counterfeit supposes bleared thine eyne.
may carry it thus, for our pleasure and his penance,
Where either I must live, or bear no life;
Or lose our ventures.
The royal disposition of that beast
time of my beauty, and am I now a subject for them?
Yet, I beseech you,
man, I am most dreadfully attended. But, in the
He will allow no speech, which I do guess
She shall not see me: I will ensconce me behind the arras.
The wall, methinks, being sensible, should curse again.
Despiteful and intolerable wrongs!
To their whole being! I am rapt and cannot cover
Too far in years to be a pupil now:
I myself heard the king say he would not be ransomed.
cannot part them.
Will this work?
Into three limits very equally:
Make of your prayers one sweet sacrifice,
To the lascivious pleasing of a lute.
Can clear me in't.
Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom
And so I chide the means that keeps me from it;
Recounts most horrid sights seen by the watch.
How many inches doth fill up one mile.
Destruction on my head, if my bad blame
Your marriage comes by destiny,
to a point.
For nature so preposterously to err,
slip-shod.
Because it is a blessing that he bestows on beasts;
I have an hour's talk in store for you;
To train ten thousand English to their side,
What, out of hearing? gone? no sound, no word?
Why I, that did love Caesar when I struck him,
So under fortune, which you thought had been
And therefore comes my brother Montague.
to stay behind her. She is at the court, and no
We wish your peace.
You we first seize on.
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
To try the fair adventure of to-morrow.
her education promises; her dispositions she
We make a quire, as doth the prison'd bird,
Teach us, sweet madam, for our rude transgression
Nothing but 'Mortimer,' and give it him
What paper were you reading?
My child? away with't! Even thou, that hast
Sans fable, she herself reviled you there.
They told me, here, at dead time of the night,
Who lets it hop a little from her hand,
see thee pass thy punto, thy stock, thy reverse, thy
O' th' other's villany?
Your grace, we think, should soonest know his mind.
Ay, this is he that took King Henry's chair,
Let him for ever go:--let him not--Charmian,
With ladies' faces and fierce dragons' spleens,
way to the pox. Here comes the Lord Lysimachus disguised.
Thou mightst be freed.
that say so of him. Who are they?
You lack the season of all natures, sleep.
Let him greet England with our sharp defiance.
If it be,
The Dauphin is preparing hitherward,
When nights are longest there: I'll take my leave.
Look on me with your welkin eye: sweet villain!
So that, in this unjust divorce of us,
There comes a fellow crying out for help:
Go to the pulpit, Brutus.
And that shall Claudio know; so shall the prince
Is she not passing fair?
Enter PARIS, TROILUS, AENEAS, DEIPHOBUS, ANTENOR, and DIOMEDES
conscience, I should stay with the Jew my master,
Is guilty of this lamentable chance!
By cock and pie, you shall not choose, sir! come, come.
than the staple of his argument. I abhor such
His grace is at Marseilles; to which place
Speak it in French, king; say, 'pardonne moi.'
Make the gruel thick and slab:
Exeunt LYSANDER and DEMETRIUS
I, not remembering how I cried out then,
Ay, madam.
Some sudden mischief may arise of it;
Upon example; so the spirit is eased:
And when I ask'd you what the matter was,
And hurt my brother.
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
Exeunt LUCIUS and Lords
Exeunt Wife, Beadle, Mayor,  and c
The one's for use, the other useth it.
That stays but till her owner comes aboard,
They willfully themselves exile from light
What, in the midst of the street?
In place of Lord Bassanio and myself.
Is this the man you speak of?
Disprove this villain, if thou be'st a man:
Our separation so abides, and flies,
The canker galls the infants of the spring,
They are loves I bear to you.
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all. I am glad
And, by thy guess, how nigh is Clarence now?
homewards. Good sir, go with us.
And you have rung it lustily, my lord;
What zeal, what fury hath inspired thee now?
Then art thou damned for keeping thy word with the devil.
All hail, great master! grave sir, hail! I come
Let it not cumber your better remembrance.
Leave your prating: since these good men are
Like free and honest men, our just opinions
The lamb.
two and thirty, a pip out? Whom would to God I had
Why, we shall make him mad indeed.
Why, how now, kinsman! wherefore storm you so?
Brother by the mother's side, give me your hand:
The heavy accent of thy moving tongue
My riches are these poor habiliments,
this other day, because I was no gentleman born.
Exeunt TITUS, LAVINIA, and Young LUCIUS
Pretty, i' faith.
obstacles: it made me once restore a purse of gold
All your true followers out.
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law,
Saw you the king to-day, my Lord of Derby?
What, have you met with her?
After some question with him, was converted
For aught I see, this city must be famish'd,
Was't I! yea, I it was, proud Frenchwoman:
Out of our easiness and childish pity
Such doubts, as false coin, from it. The king loves you;
Fine linen, Turkey cushions boss'd with pearl,
Upon my life, by some device or other
And to make whores, a bawd. Hold up, you sluts,
Of the most pious Edward with such grace
And laugh like parrots at a bag-piper,
Dost thou prate, rogue?
And with his mad attendant and himself,
Egeus, I will overbear your will;
Ah, Warwick, why hast thou withdrawn thyself?
Upbraid my falsehood! when they've said 'as false
The instruments of darkness tell us truths,
Bear me forthwith unto his creditor,
I send it through the rivers of your blood,
Your brother did employ my father much,--
Lord, let me never have a cause to sigh,
Thou art a slave, whom Fortune's tender arm
One Hero died defiled, but I do live,
Methinks it should be now a huge eclipse
of lying. He hath wronged me in some humours: I
Well in her person I say I will not have you.
Nor I, assure thee, Regan.
With good acceptance of his majesty;
Why bear you these rebukes and answer not?
I never spent an hour's talk withal:
Farewell, my sons: see that you make her sure.
That will I, for I must bear answer back
My powers are crescent, and my auguring hope
Ten o'clock: within these three hours 'twill be
And there will we abide. I do desire you
I will enchant the old Andronicus
Would you have been so brief with him, he would
If it be so to do good service, never
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now!
Enter VOLUMNIA
To him and his usurp'd authority.
The dragon wing of night o'erspreads the earth,
period of my ambition: O this blessed hour!
Thou fumblest, Eros; and my queen's a squire
They fight. DOUGLAS kills SIR WALTER BLUNT. Enter HOTSPUR
Not only take away, but let your sentence
As, if God please, they shall,--my ransom then
As if we should forget we had no hands,
Full of protest, of oath and big compare,
Nor shall not, when my fancy's on my play.
Well, I will marry one day, but to try.
No traveller returns, puzzles the will
Without much fall of blood; whose guiltless drops
Hum!
It is no matter; let no images
And yet it is not that I bear thee love;
And where we are our learning likewise is:
And so he walks, insulting o'er his prey,
Under some biting error.
Like Amazons come tripping after drums,
but fare you well.
He is a good one, and his worthiness
O sir, you are too sure an augurer;
They kill him
O, be removed from him, and answer well!
Which men full true shall find;
Have sworn for three years' term to live with me
Exit
Shall no man else be touch'd but only Caesar?
Exit
He'll tell me all his purpose: sure, he'll come.
Since kings break faith upon commodity,
I'll make the motion: stand here, make a good show
carrying your letter.
I were unmannerly, to take you out,
And you, the empress! but we worldly men
But they are cruel tears: this sorrow's heavenly;
Alas, what need you be so boisterous-rough?
Sons, peace!
The mighty Warwick, and did fight for me?
Upon his death?
There be some women, Silvius, had they mark'd him
Run to the Capitol, and nothing else?
That you shall all repent the loss of mine:
With golden fruit, but dangerous to be touch'd;
Not working with the eye without the ear,
I have a kind of self resides with you;
Whose death indeed's the strongest in our censure:
Among nine bad if one be good,
Great Birnam wood to high Dunsinane hill
without seeking find, and be embraced by a piece of
'Od's lifelings, here he is! You broke my head for
According to my birth. What do you say?
My daughter will I question how she loves you,
And last the hearty welcome.
Lo, what befell! he threw his eye aside,
Welcome, my son: who are the violets now
A true-devoted pilgrim is not weary
Five or six thousand horse, I said,-- I will say
Go shake your ears.
That is the butt-end of a mother's blessing:
Which the brain makes of fumes: our very eyes
Exeunt
DON
A woman of quick sense.
Now is the woodcock near the gin.
You cannot make gross sins look clear:
Upon the brook that brawls along this wood:
When your false masters eat of my lord's meat?
Nay, I'll be patient.
To King Edward the Third; whereas he
If I know this, know all the world besides,
Follows the choking.
Within the house, your mistress is at hand;
The gods confound--hear me, you good gods all--
Sirrah, come on.
To excuse the current of thy cruelty.
And lose by over-running. Know you not,
Troilus, farewell! one eye yet looks on thee
To know my errand, madam.
And mark the fleers, the gibes, and notable scorns,
Or pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock,
For never anything can be amiss,
We will awake him and be sure of him.
That through our intercession this revokement
That womanhood denies my tongue to tell:
I will conduct you where you shall be lodged;
The rather by these arguments of fear,
As ravenous fishes, do a vessel follow
direct answer. To-morrow morning are to die Claudio
To our own lips. He's here in double trust;
Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite
Married the Duke of Clarence' daughter, did he not?
Aside
has a knot on't yet
To pluck his indignation on thy head
That nature must compel us to lament
you; for I think I have taken my last draught in
Now the gods keep you!
much out of quiet. For Monsieur Malvolio, let me
You look on me: what wreck discern you in me
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus, DROMIO of Ephesus, ANGELO, and BALTHAZAR
I will send far and near, that all the kingdom
Give me some help! O cruel! O you gods!
This prince in justice seizeth but his own.
Exit FENTON
Alas, what cry is that?
For she is wise, if I can judge of her,
hid in the garden.
So, now they come:
The slavish motive of recanting fear,
You are deceived; my child is none of his:
And made them watchers of mine own heart's sorrow.
Peace, peace, Mercutio, peace!
And yield to mercy whilst 'tis offer'd you;
But to your wishes' height advance you both.
Enrings the barky fingers of the elm.
est meilleur que l'Anglois lequel je parle.
We hope to make the sender blush at it.
Feeds beast as man: the nobleness of life
In your distrust.
QUEEN GERTRUDE falls
If thou beest Trinculo, come forth: I'll pull thee
And from the bishop's huntsmen rescued him;
Make battery to our ears with the loud music:
Enter LEONTES, HERMIONE, MAMILLIUS, POLIXENES, CAMILLO, and Attendants
By humble message and by promised means:
Help, master, help! here's a fish hangs in the net,
Enter CINNA
By virtue specially to be achieved.
Breeds him and makes him of his bed-chamber,
Not in love neither? Then let us say you are sad,
I do lament the sickness of the king.
If I do, hang me in a bottle like a cat and shoot
The bonds of heaven are slipp'd, dissolved, and loosed;
O heaven, that there were but a mote in yours,
From any other foul unlawful touch
Is that we scarce are men and you are gods.
Than can the substance of ten thousand soldiers
For I am sure she is not buried.
I do; and will fetch off Bohemia for't;
When half to half the world opposed, he being
must leave them, and seek some better service:
Come in, and let us banquet royally,
The poison of that lies in you to temper. Go you to
Thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars,
Even in his own garments, and gave himself,
Repair to Pompey's porch, where you shall find us.
Willingly;
As made the things more rich: their perfume lost,
To mingle faith with him! Undone! undone!
The lord be praised!
Taking off her bracelet
You are already Love's firm votary
[Aside]              Honest lord,
to convince the honour of my mistress, if, in the
To wage an instant trial with the king.
It is my wretched fortune.
That you have slander'd so?
Thou quiet soul, sleep thou a quiet sleep
SCENE II. A room in the castle.
No, as I am a man.
town, by moonlight; there will we rehearse, for if
Say, Earl of Suffolk--if thy name be so--
At your industrious scenes and acts of death.
In spring time,  and c.
none, remember thy friends; get thee a good husband,
melted, if you give him not John Drum's
can witness.
This is the quondam king; let's seize upon him.
Of Cloten's death--we being not known, not muster'd
Why look you strange on me? you know me well.
thing; 'tis a lie, I am not ague-proof.
I swear to you. I think Helen loves him better than Paris.
I will do't; but yet she is a goodly creature.
O my poor Rosalind, whither wilt thou go?
No, my love, I should not mourn, but die for thee.
Behold, sir.
I would do more than that, if more were needful.
wringing her hands, and all our house in a great
Why, Percy I killed myself and saw thee dead.
Ready, sir; but his will hath in it a more modest working.
He and his forces enter the city
O'erbears it and burns on.
She may, Lord Rivers! why, who knows not so?
To be controll'd in that he frankly gave:
Mine's not an idle cause: the duke himself,
Sirrah, I say, forbear. Friend Valentine, a word.
He must, he is, he cannot but be wise:
The gods be good unto us!
Good for their meat, and safer for their lives.
I have a king here to my flatterer.
Even since it could speak, from an infant, freely
He unlocks the golden casket
He and his toothpick at my worship's mess,
opening my lips and receiving the bad air.
The rest, that love me, rise and follow me.
Great sir, they shall be brought you to my house,
Is it therefore
you: of her I am to speak.
I shaked you, sir, and cried: as mine eyes open'd,
Merciful heaven!
More than your force move us to gentleness.
And given his deputation all the organs
At that that I have kill'd, my lord; a fly.
You take much pains to mend.
honest knaveries.
I loved her most, and thought to set my rest
We'll visit Caliban my slave, who never
O old sir Robert, father, on my knee
Read not my blemishes in the world's report:
Storm still
Have sold their fortunes at their native homes,
The head is not more native to the heart,
Because authority, though it err like others,
He capers nimbly in a lady's chamber
Gaoler, look to him: tell not me of mercy;
half, hauf; neighbour vocatur nebor; neigh
Then know, it is your fault that you resign
Go, write it in a martial hand; be curst and brief;
If from this presence thou darest go with me.
which he thinks is a patent for his sauciness; and,
Where is he?
Signior, is all your family within?
Re-enter PISANIO and Ladies
Only for this, I pray you, pardon me.
There lives within the very flame of love
[Aside to CLARENCE]  The match is made; she seals it
And break it to our hope. I'll not fight with thee.
one that can steal well? O for a fine thief, of the
Come, come, thou reverend man of Rome,
Or all of it, with our displeasure pieced,
Rather than have false Proteus rescue me.
Unless the adage must be verified,
You see, my lord, how ample you're beloved.
he have caught the Benedick, it will cost him a
Was never so emboss'd.
For all the Welshmen, hearing thou wert dead.
If in your country wars you chance to die,
What is he that shall buy his flock and pasture?
Enter LADY PERCY
But he hath chid me hence and threaten'd me
All murders past do stand excused in this:
The practise and the purpose of the king:
For, by oppressing and betraying me,
I think your highness saw this many a day.
Ay, but she'll think that it is spoke in hate.
It was the owl that shriek'd, the fatal bellman,
Some spirit put this paper in the packet,
SCENE IV. The Boar's-Head Tavern, Eastcheap.
And hell too strong for me to buckle with:
And yet, incaged in so small a verge,
And burgonet of men. He's speaking now,
once writ a sonnet in his praise and began thus:
I mock you! no, by heaven.
Heigh-ho! sing,  and c.
We shall, noble captain.
Exit POLONIUS
No deeper wrinkles yet? hath sorrow struck
it is but heading and hanging.
You say not right, old man.
DON
into stitches, follow me. Yond gull Malvolio is
None about Caesar.
ACT V
To Gregory de Cassado, to conclude,
Through all the signories it was the first
Good mine host o' the Garter, a word with you.
was a sailor.
Suddenly taken; and hath sent post haste
offered her mine own, who is a dog as big as ten of
Tongue far from heart--play with all virgins so:
I saw him at the Duke Alencon's once;
How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false
Lies down and sleeps
Return you to my sister.
infect yourself with them?
My good lord cardinal, they vent reproaches
Why, then, methinks 'tis time to smile again.
But then I saw no harm, and then I heard
Must be thy subject, who in spite put stuff
Re-enter Pedant below; TRANIO, BAPTISTA, and Servants
I was not born a yielder, thou proud Scot;
ANTIPHOLUS
And hark, what noise the general makes! To him!
O, above measure false!
An her hair were not somewhat darker than Helen's--
Get you to bed on the instant; I will be returned
Falstaff's boy with her! Good plots, they are laid;
'Tis such another fitchew! marry a perfumed one.
Uproar the universal peace, confound
If 'twere no other--
What can be their business
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe,
The general and his wife are talking of it;
Let him be apprehended.
more money.
We are all undone.
His name that valiant duke hath left with thee;
I'll prove mine honour and mine honesty
Whom for this time we pardon. We enjoin thee,
Philip, my liege, so is my name begun,
Ay, ay: I care not for good life.
Hates any man the thing he would not kill?
So do all thoughts; they are winged.
Too late? why, no; I, that do speak a word.
Ill-faced, worse bodied, shapeless everywhere;
Within the fore-rank of our articles.
Plague him with flies: though that his joy be joy,
Let me see, let me see; is not the leaf turn'd down
From Milan.
reception of King, Princess, Lords,  and c.
Our part therein we banish with yourselves--
Who not contented that he lopp'd the branch
Re-enter LAFEU, with HELENA
Let me wipe it first; it smells of mortality.
'school,' 'fool,' a babbling rhyme; very ominous
O, 'tis foul in her.
By two of their most reverend senate, greet thee:
[Reads]  'This fail you not to do, as you will--'
Took off her life; this, and what needful else
Burthen Ding-dong
To lengthen out the worst that must be spoken:
Exit CROMWELL
Enter the city, clip your wives, your friends,
Trip we after the night's shade:
He would not call me son.
Your honour not o'erthrown by your desires,
Dispark'd my parks and fell'd my forest woods,
God forbid any malice should prevail,
I here importune death awhile, until
Why, this is not a boon;
My leg is cut in two.
When judges steal themselves. What, do I love her,
Yet I have a trick
Set 't down, let's look upon't.
Sir, give him head: I know he'll prove a jade.
My heart this covenant makes, my hand thus seals it.
Where's Caius Marcius?
Singing
Prepares for some attempt of war.
I shall be with you presently, good master puppy.
The one almost as infinite as all,
French part of such a boy; and for my English moiety
And give your hearts to, when they once perceive
Where art thou?
To give great Charlemain a pen in's hand,
No higher than thyself; the judge's clerk,
I do forswear them; and I here protest,
Join we together, for the public good,
Than had I seen the vaulty top of heaven
It will not be: retire into your trenches:
Hath Romeo slain himself? say thou but 'I,'
And the remembrancer of her to hold
Yes, something you can deny for your own
him at the bird-bolt. I pray you, how many hath he
Sings
And chide the cripple tardy-gaited night
By cock, they are to blame.
understandings for thy cases and the numbers of the
Resolved to carry her: let her in fine consent,
My latter part of life.
Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou
The infant of your care; beseeching you
That's verily. 'Tis best we stand upon our guard,
Kingdoms are clay: our dungy earth alike
If any bark put forth, come to the mart,
Some war with rere-mice for their leathern wings,
Sir Hugh, persuade me not; I will make a Star-
Swift-winged with desire to get a grave,
For his death we do perceive his guilt:
a million: thou owest me thy love.
O most dear mistress,
Seems more than we shall find it: were it good
I had in charge at my depart for France,
In that he wears the badge of Somerset.
I prithee, lady, go away with me.
sworn not to give regard to you. Farewell; and come
Stands on me to defend, not to debate.
And when I told the empress of this sport,
What says he to your daughter? have you spoke?
That thou turn rascal; hadst thou wealth again,
Which holds but till thy news be uttered;
What you do
his brains are forfeit to the next tile that falls.
That in this quarrel have been overthrown
This before all the world do I prefer;
Strange things I have in head, that will to hand;
And sleep an act or two; but those, we fear,
Your fame forever.
Give me the iron, I say, and bind him here.
For if the French be lords of this loud day,
To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
He's not yet through warm: force him with praises:
Which pierces so that it assaults
without it.
Your fellow tribune.
Is like a villain with a smiling cheek,
Good news or bad, that thou comest in so bluntly?
Thou speak'st with all thy wit: and yet, i' faith,
Shall I attend your lordship?
Till he hath pass'd necessity.
It is an heretic that makes the fire,
For it must seem their guilt.
The Douglas is; and I beseech your grace
For, did I think thou wouldst not quickly die,
Away, away, to meet the queen's great power!
says 'Launcelot, budge not.' 'Budge,' says the
Which, like your asses and your dogs and mules,
And of buxom valour, hath, by cruel fate,
But, not to be a troubler of your peace,
Thy sheep be in the corn;
Enter HELENA and Widow
though he had no hand in his death, shall receive
Give your worship good morrow.
speak well enough.
'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue.
So white, and such a traitor!
For so I know he is, they know he is,
When it hoars ere it be spent.
So did I too; and he swore he would marry her to-night.
They would be better, if well followed.
Though first in question, is thy secondary.
And finish all foul thoughts. O Antony,
Tied it by letters-patents: now, who'll take it?
And therefore here I mean to take my leave.
He could not sit his mule.
Bade him anon return and here speak with me;
A puffed man?
How can these things in me seem scorn to you,
Seest thou this letter? take it up, I pray thee,
You would say it hath been all in all his study:
So much applauded through the realm of France?
But I will chastise this high-minded strumpet.
And throw it from their soul; though perils did
Very well, my lord
At Rhodes, at Cyprus and on other grounds
Then to the point.
Upon the winds command, bind them in brass,
Give me the ring of mine you had at dinner,
Exeunt
subject, if not before the king; which stopped our
So am I driven by breath of her renown
Well, sir, as you guess, as you guess?
Comfort forswear me! Unkindness may do much;
Than some that have accused them wear their hats.
I promise thee.
calamity, so beauty's a flower. The lady bade take
To run upon the sharp wind of the north,
And in that hope I throw mine eyes to heaven,
Why, then she is the devil's dam; a joyful issue.
You hear the learn'd Bellario, what he writes:
I did not think the king so stored with friends.
Then linger not, my lord, away, take horse.
Hark, what fine change is in the music!
To re-survey them, we will suddenly
To fight in quarrel of the house of Lancaster.
Come from country to be judged by you,
And light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes,
what I am willing to keep in; therefore it charges
A brother's murder. Pray can I not,
At large discourse, while here they do remain.
And all this courtesy! The strain of man's bred out
That instant was I turn'd into a hart;
Enter FALSTAFF
May the winds blow till they have waken'd death!
But as I come, I come for Lancaster.
embassage; and so I commit you--
We are so virtuously bound--
At length her grace rose, and with modest paces
such proverb so little kin to the purpose.
And loving farewell of our several friends.
Almost with ravish'd listening, could not find
An thou hadst not come to my bed.
You may be armed and appointed well:
Re-enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR and all his train marching
Moreover, urge his hateful luxury
Not he, I hope.
look ill, Timon. Here's that which is too weak to
early: so that to go to bed after midnight is to go
My falcon now is sharp and passing empty;
Ay, and you hear him cog, see him dissemble,
KING HENRY VI swoons
How he may soften at the sight o' the child:
So prosper I, as I swear perfect love!
My lord, good morrow; good morrow, Catesby:
Prince Pericles, touch not, upon thy life.
But, by your favour,
In whom the tempers and the minds of all
large cicatrices to show the people, when he shall
for you. It is 'music with her silver sound,'
Not so well apparell'd
And men may talk of kings, and why not I?
Since they, so few, watch such a multitude.
To whom they go to. What will you read to her?
Something wicked this way comes.
By the law of arms thou wast not bound to answer
We will attend to neither.
Call'd for the truce of Winchester and Gloucester;
For underneath an alehouse' paltry sign,
money. I tell you for good will, look you: you
But are you sure
Hear you this Triton of the minnows? mark you
Give sorrow words: the grief that does not speak
But this exceeding posting day and night
For you serve knaves.
Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was
And therefore is he idle?
Craft against vice I must apply:
Make them be strong and ready for this hint,
What, art thou stiff? stand'st out?
An honest country lord, as I am, beaten
So shall she leave her blessedness to one,
Your honourable letter he desires
I will yet do you service.
Be near at hand; I may miscarry in't.
But youth in ladies' eyes that flourisheth.
Why all these fires, why all these gliding ghosts,
Your lordship is a guest too.
Ah, Marcus, Marcus! brother, well I wot
And Pericles, in sorrow all devour'd,
This is the day that, in King Edward's time,
I thank you, doctor.
Exit BOYET
Walking from watch to watch, from tent to tent,
Nor ask advice of any other thought
Immaculate devotion, holy thoughts,
This day is called the feast of Crispian:
Yet have I heard,--O, could I find it now!--
As that ungentle hull, the cuckoo's bird,
will hang them. Get you gone, and let me hear no
Be it our wives, our children, or ourselves,
And in conclusion wins the king from her,
A devil.
This hideous rashness: answer my life my judgment,
a French hose: come in, tailor; here you may
How parted with your brothers? how first met them?
Here comes a gentleman that haply knows more.
For thou has lost thy princely privilege
And once again we'll sleep secure in Rouen.
The legions now in Gallia sooner landed
Turn him to any cause of policy,
Become a dog that's mad: then is it sin
What, shall our feast be kept with slaughter'd men?
Against the rectorship of judgment?
Might from our quiet confines fright fair peace
I praise God for you, sir: your reasons at dinner
At sea in childbed died she, but brought forth
At my request he would not.
Now for the honour of the forlorn French!
Via! les eaux et la terre.
Whose life were ill bestow'd or death unfamed
He would not answer to: forbad all names;
My mild entreaty shall not make you guilty.
In a false quarrel there is no true valour. I came
A man of his place, and so near our favour,
summer's day; a most lovely gentleman-like man:
It were not for your quiet nor your good,
And many a man there is, even at this present,
Who am I? ha?
Then, that in all you writ to Rome, or else
At Stony-Stratford will they be to-night:
I fear he will.
Your country's fat shall pay your pains the hire;
in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
Yet doth he give us bold advertisement,
And nothing can or shall content my soul
Because their breaths with sweetmeats tainted are:
Give me your hand. Come you from old Bellario?
And back to Athens shall the lovers wend,
Not rash like his accusers, and thus answer'd:
And so hath Clifton: I'll to Clifton straight.
And wears upon his baby-brow the round
Which I have better'd rather than decreased:
Assisted by that most disloyal traitor
my counterfeiting the action of an old woman,
To strike at me, upon his misconstruction;
O, that the gods
We'll play with them the first boy for a thousand ducats.
That words seem'd buried in my sorrow's grave.
Come you hither to me, Master tapster. What's your
O you gods!
Enter PANDARUS
Wherein I sigh not, Julia, for thy sake,
And hale him up and down, all swearing, if
Lend me a fool's heart and a woman's eyes,
To be afraid to tell graybeards the truth?
I call upon thee.
prayers are he may, let me desire you to make your
Hath he conversed with the enemy,
against six French swords, their assigns, and three
Sound trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN  MARGARET, GLOUCESTER, YORK, SUFFOLK, and SALISBURY;  the DUCHESS, MARGARET JOURDAIN, SOUTHWELL, HUME, and BOLINGBROKE, under guard
Well, think of marriage now; younger than you,
Which we much rather had depart withal
Have thus proceeded.
To whom it must be done.
Right gracious lord, I cannot brook delay:
Never to marry but by my free leave?
Rank of gross diet, shall be enclouded,
Troth, I think your other rabato were better.
Exeunt
How came
Speak with me, pity me, open the door.
Whose edge hath power to cut, whose will still wills
How now! what news?
Commit the war of white and damask in
No.
Laugh at his challenge.
ANTIPHOLUS
world. Here comes two of the banished duke's pages.
Could not take truce with the unruly spleen
SCENE IV. The court.
In christening shalt thou have two god-fathers:
Thy knee bussing the stones--for in such business
SCENE III. Before the castle.
Exeunt certain Officers
The envious barking of your saucy tongue
I know by that he's dead; and, by my soul,
I am sorry for't, my lord.
From shelves and rocks that threaten us with wreck.
How now, my lord! what hap? what hope of good?
What is't you say?
They told me that your name was Fontibell.
Use all the observance of civility,
And dash'd the brains out, had I so sworn as you
'Pardon' should be the first word of thy speech.
Do, child, go to it grandam, child:
In every mess have folly and the feeders
That I am free of your report, he knows
Comfort, dear mother: God is much displeased
By learned approbation of the judges. If I am
Both for your honour better and your cause;
How found you him?
I shall not dine at home;
Post thou to Salisbury
I had a brother, then. Heaven keep your honour!
SCENE I. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
mean: superfluity comes sooner by white hairs, but
the approach of day.
Become themselves in her: that the holy priests
To amorous Phillida. Why art thou here,
In a trice,
he transgressed: she would have made Hercules have
For shame, 'oman.
lads, I am glad you have the money. Hostess, clap
I may dispose of him.
Why, no; no more than reason.
He solemnly had sworn, that what he spoke
As near the dawning, provost, as it is,
Which speed, we hope, the better for our words.
Get thee gone:
Dorset your son, that with a fearful soul
observe; I give thee warning on't.
I found that kindness in a father:
So please your grace, we'll take her from the sheriff.
Nor go neither; but you'll lie like dogs and yet say
He thanks your grace; names himself Pericles,
When the tongue's office should be prodigal
And seal the title with a lovely kiss!
No woman had it, but a civil doctor,
A noble troop of strangers;
Your children yet unborn and unbegot,
Or of devotion, to this holy shrine?
O, I could play the woman with mine eyes
Achievement is command; ungain'd, beseech:
From Lisbon, Barbary and India?
Bestow it at your pleasure; and believe,
outprized by a trifle.
A young Venetian, one that comes before
beat not the bones of the buried: when he breathed,
I shall do so;
Where you shall hold your session. At this time
He said the truth: and what said Surrey then?
Hath banish'd me, his daughter?
A shop of all the qualities that man
Exit
Sir, I shall meet your wit in the career, and you
To send for Lucius, thy thrice-valiant son,
Ask him his purposes, why he appears
Whom have I injured, that ye seek my death?
Sirrah, what made your master in this place?
Why should I joy in any abortive birth?
SCENE II. Before the cave of Belarius.
Edward's unhappy sons do bid thee flourish.
As you have been; that's for my country:
Of all the favourites that the absent king
Farewell, good friar: I prithee, pray for me. The
So shalt thou show me friendship. Take thou that:
Why, Antony.
Yea, curse his better angel from his side,
With sore distraction. What I have done,
Suffolk, what remedy?
Thy master is not there, who was indeed
Thou art a gentleman and well derived;
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Or bathe my dying honour in the blood
A generation of still-breeding thoughts,
Madam, I'll follow you unto the death.
With clamourous demands of date-broke bonds,
Exit
O, when she's angry, she is keen and shrewd!
Even to that drop ten thousand wiry friends
And fit it with such furniture as suits
And find your grace in health.
With us to watch the minutes of this night;
You sway the motion of Demetrius' heart.
And you. Good night, good night.
Without eyes, ears and harmful sound of words;
And be not proud: though all the world could see,
magnanimous, are all one reckonings, save the phrase
Ne'er spurr'd their coursers at the trumpet's sound;
you, as you shall desire in a summer's day. Here is
Betid to any creature in the vessel
For to supply the places at the table,
For both of you are birds of selfsame feather.
Now, the report goes she has all the rule of her
all the kind of the Launces have this very fault. I
And think with wagging of your tongue to win me;
Dolabella!
How in his suit he scorn'd you; but your loves,
The most infectious pestilence upon thee!
Can censure 'scape; back-wounding calumny
Hides the gold
Lay on our royal sword your banish'd hands;
May these same instruments, which you profane,
Ingross'd by swift impress; in Caesar's fleet
Renowned Talbot doth expect my aid,
A passion most unsuiting such a man--
He would embrace the means to come by it.
Who shall take notice of thee: I'll move the king
That both mine eyes were rainy like to his :
Or give me ribs of steel! I shall split all
Yet leave our cousin Katharine here with us:
To Servant
Remember that you call on me to-day:
That it may enter butcher Mowbray's breast!
But whither shall we then?
to scratch. I must to the barber's, monsieur; for
To ease ourselves of divers slanderous loads,
That, by and by, disguised they will be here.
The motions of his spirit are dull as night
from the world! What corruption in this life, that
Yearly will I do this rite.
Now thou art seal'd the son of chivalry?
I am here with thee and thy goats, as the most
As soul to soul affordeth?
Even for this charge.
And I am something curious, being strange,
Meet me to-morrow in St. George's field,
And yet of moment to, for it concerns
own imperfection: but, good Sir John, as you have
May show like all yourself.
Writing destruction on the enemy's castle?
As one that had been studied in his death
The law hath not been dead, though it hath slept:
crab. Thou canst tell why one's nose stands i'
crushest the snake!' that is the way to make an
Sad stories chanced in the times of old.
To contract, O, the time, for, ah, my behove,
Go forward and be choked with thy ambition!
ANTIPHOLUS
In qualities of the best. This man of thine
But thus his simple truth must be abused
That after seven years' siege yet Troy walls stand;
This is his claim, his threatening and my message;
will blow them down.
Had answer'd for his deed: now 'tis awake
I would not wed her for a mine of gold.
And the complexion of the element
As they themselves would owe them.
Tybalt, Mercutio, the prince expressly hath
Enter Ghost
Whiles he is vaulting variable ramps,
Will wing me to some wither'd bough and there
Sir?
Putting on the ring
and the Moor are now making the beast with two backs.
Look, how you butt yourself in these sharp mocks!
Nay, and you shall hear some.
And in it are the Lords of York, Berkeley, and Seymour;
I would you had never seen him!
But for your private satisfaction,
What, would you bury him in my despite?
That any man turn ass,
the mortal Venus, the heart-blood of beauty, love's
To noble Edmund. I know you are of her bosom.
As shall conveniently become you there:'
That is, her love; for that is all in all.
To show the line and the predicament
Will have your tongue too. This is a creature,
but that they are limed with the twigs that threaten
To feast upon whole thousands of the French.
Either withdraw unto some private place,
Good night.
Alas, good gentleman! alas, good Cassio!
I can but say their protestation over;
Out of their saddles into the dirt; and thereby
Shall raise such artificial sprites
I know thou dost; and, sweet Revenge, farewell.
Enter CASSIO
Let ordinance
disrelish and abhor the Moor; very nature will
A man so breathed, that certain he would fight; yea
With amber bracelets, beads and all this knavery.
I am to thank you for 't.
Are prized by their masters: believe't, dear lord,
No; many a pound of mine own proper store,
Go to, then; you come to me, and you say
Our gayness and our gilt are all besmirch'd
Had I brought hither a corrupted mind,
Thy rage sham burn thee up, and thou shalt turn
To MARDIAN
When, both your voices blended, the great'st taste
As those which sell would give: but you well know,
mettle in death, which commits some loving act upon
You cannot shun Yourself.
as well as another man, a plague on my bringing up!
Come, shelter, shelter: I have removed Falstaff's
And therefore put I on the countenance
He flashes into one gross crime or other,
Thou thinkest not of this now. Nay, I remember the
the loins, and men by the legs: when a man's
'Tis time to fear when tyrants seem to kiss.
More than a spinster; unless the bookish theoric,
about my heart: but it is no matter.
Like one of two contending in a prize,
Grace grow where those drops fall!
Be plain, Queen Margaret, and tell thy grief;
Reigns in my blood and will remember'd be.
Froissart, a countryman of ours, records,
The corse they follow did with desperate hand
What are they that fly there?
Exit FLAVIUS. TIMON retires to his cave
The enemies of Caesar shall say this;
Desires to be admitted to your presence.
Now, good my lord, give me the scope of justice
Brutus, what shall be done? If this be known,
Would better fit his chamber than this shadow.
Perchance are to this business purblind? say.
And uncle Worcester: a plague upon it!
By your leave, ho!
Think on Lord Hastings: despair, and die!
Requires slow pace at first: anger is like
mouths in a glass.
And, nephew, challenged you to single fight.
Of blind forgetfulness and dark oblivion.
Because she is something lower than myself,
That for this twelvemonth she'll not undertake
Full soon the canker death eats up that plant.
Twinkling another counterfeited beam,
That did but show thee, of a fool, inconstant
Exeunt WILLIAM STAFFORD and SIR HUMPHREY, and soldiers
In strange concealments, valiant as a lion
The body is with the king, but the king is not with
Pluck a bard sentence: prithee, valiant youth,
And slaves they are to me that send them flying:
thoughts; wherein I confess me much guilty, to deny
Exit above
Which if they have as I will leave 'em them,
O monstrous treachery! can this be so,
Hark, the duke's trumpets! I know not why he comes.
Could have attain'd the effect of your own purpose,
Dear sir, ere long I'll visit you again.
To their lord's murder: roasted in wrath and fire,
That honour which shall bate his scythe's keen edge
I am not gamesome: I do lack some part
He would not flatter Neptune for his trident,
They draw
He shall drink nought but brine; for I'll not show him
My lord,
And on her virgin honour will not break it.
Rear up his body; wring him by the nose.
No, noble Titus, but entreat of thee
Drums; flourish and colours. Enter KING RICHARD II, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE, DUKE OF AUMERLE, and Soldiers
Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't:
To do you salutation from his master.
Advance your standards, draw your willing swords.
Villains!
In troops I have dispersed them 'bout the isle.
By bloody hands, in sleeping on your beds!
fat chuffs: I would your store were here! On,
Ill mayst thou thrive, if thou grant any grace!
Make me acquainted with your cause of grief.
against May.
Tush, man, abodements must not now affright us:
Till we meet Warwick with his foreign power.
I know not, madam: 'tis a fair young man, and well attended.
Marry, before he fell down, when he perceived the
My husband!
Ay, by heaven, my lord.
So; now, methinks, I feel a little ease.
There is a slave, whom we have put in prison,
hast a fine forehead.
And I did laugh sans intermission
Asses, fools, dolts! chaff and bran, chaff and bran!
Enter IDEN, with CADE'S head
I would keep from thee. For your sake, jewel,
Like to the Garter's compass, in a ring:
it he is to sojourn with you? How creeps
Your grace may do your pleasure.
To the cardinal's:
I pray you, husband, be not so disquiet:
And this way comes he with it presently;
BISHOP
Than one on's ears to hear it? Proceed, Cominius.
Exeunt
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent:
Hast thou observed that? even she, I mean.
they could not read, thou hast hanged them; when,
SCENE II. Before Lord Hastings' house.
And now what rests but, in night's coverture,
Padua affords nothing but what is kind.
I am a poor man, and at your majesty's command.
What is the matter
in King Cambyses' vein.
that I have a kind of alacrity in sinking; if the
Good morrow, old Sir Thomas Erpingham:
The lustre of the better yet to show,
The boy hath sold him a bargain, a goose, that's flat.
Love use Reason for his physician, he admits him
A franklin's housewife.
start not so wildly from my affair.
Pray, be content:
Throca movousus, cargo, cargo, cargo.
Deny your asking: take your choice of those
Re-enter Citizens
Pray you, content. What, Oswald, ho!
Than twenty silly ducking observants
Lady, you are the cruell'st she alive,
With such a number. What, must I come to you
Let's make us medicines of our great revenge,
Now, by the faith of my love, I will: tell me
Let's all cry 'Peace, freedom and liberty!'
How goes the field?
What mean you, sir? for God's sake, hold your hands!
And to her white hand see thou do commend
[To VOLUMNIA and VIRGILIA]  Your hand, and yours:
the tyrant.
Hast thou delight to see a wretched man
Than tarry till they push us. Good Volumnius,
that hath abundance of charge too, God knows what.
Lavinia, how say you?
Lay not thy hands on me; forbear, I say;
Dares stir a wing, if Warwick shake his bells.
Nor doth he of himself know them for aught
Marry, sir, they praise me and make an ass of me;
She is my goods, my chattels; she is my house,
But thou mistakest me much to think I do:
A howling monster: a drunken monster!
Dare not relate.
I have neither the scholar's melancholy, which is
Dispropertied their freedoms, holding them,
Hark how I'll bribe you: good my lord, turn back.
Thou never didst them wrong, nor no man wrong;
Salisbury, cheer thy spirit with this comfort;
Hardly one subject.
Will you then write me a sonnet in praise of my beauty?
In winter with warm tears I'll melt the snow
Hum!
By help of her more potent ministers
And, trust me, I was coming to you. You look very
Abate the edge of traitors, gracious Lord,
The lady speaks again in Welsh
Then, in a moment, Fortune shall cull forth
work?--A likely piece of work, that you should find
Thus says my king: Say thou to Harry of England:
Aside
The king's request that I would visit you;
me to-morrow, and you shall find me a grave man. I
Ah ha, my mistresses! which of you all
Only my wars with him: he is a lion
Ass, I doubt not.
and liking, proud, fantastical, apish, shallow,
The king and all the peers are here at hand.
The observed of all observers, quite, quite down!
gold again: fourscore ducats at a sitting!
In sooth, I would you were a little sick,
Death is a fearful thing.
Why, then, thou know'st what colour jet is of?
As if the garment had been made for me:
The one as famous for a scolding tongue
'Twould fall upon ourselves.
God I have as little patience as another man; and
I do suspect thee very grievously.
In that dead time when Gloucester's death was plotted,
them not handsomely.
At last, though long, our jarring notes agree:
Ay, Celia; we stay'd her for your sake,
Before his legs be firm to bear his body.
I thought your marriage fit; else imputation,
Received that sum, yet there remains unpaid
Beside, his wealth doth warrant a liberal dower,
Ay, and for an assault too.
And mar the concord with too harsh a descant:
my purse; I am yet thy debtor. Boy, go along with
I gave you all--
'To the celestial and my soul's idol, the most
Here in my scabbard, meditating that
Thou hast sworn my love to be.
The quarrel toucheth none but us alone;
Can ransom me into his love again,
Shall nothing benefit your knowledge, nor
Arise, black vengeance, from thy hollow cell!
What offence, sweet Beatrice?
Good morrow, neighbour Baptista.
Nor no man's lord; I have no name, no title,
Would he deny his letter? I never got him.
I fear I wrong the honourable men
I wonder men dare trust themselves with men:
With him the husband of this lovely lady:
He met me on the mart, and that I beat him,
Which makes her seat of Belmont Colchos' strand,
Or doth this churlish superscription
Were crack'd of kitchen-trolls, or his description
Doth dogged war bristle his angry crest
Why, he had none.
Methinks I so should term them, and the reverence
Exeunt
The soldiers should have toss'd me on their pikes
I to the world am like a drop of water
Welcome, Jack: where hast thou been?
teeth in your service. God be with my old master!
Qualm, perhaps.
And could command no more content than I?
That if it would but apprehend some joy,
The crown imperial; lilies of all kinds,
feelingly now?
Besides, virginity is peevish, proud, idle, made of
Alas, poor shepherd! searching of thy wound,
Which fence the roots they grow by and defend them,
Chief factors for the gods, I do not know
O my good lord! Sweet Isabel, take my part;
For I have heard that she was there in place.
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes:
How often have I tempted Suffolk's tongue,
That I, the son of a dear father murder'd,
That paper in your hand?
May not an ass know when the cart
You to your land and love and great allies:
What, ho! Abhorson! Where's Abhorson, there?
Sir, what are you that offer to beat my servant?
further warrant: go but with me to-night, you shall
Nay, that a' did not.
Ah, Silvia, Silvia!
If I could bid the fifth welcome with so good a
For the sound man. Death on my state! wherefore
under her horse; thou shouldst have heard in how
And left the ship, then sinking-ripe, to us:
He makes me angry with him; for he seems
Why, what canst thou tell, my boy?
Varro's
Cuckoo, cuckoo: O word of fear,
For certain friends that are both his and mine,
offer it: but these that accuse him in his intent
For the fair devil. Now art thou my lieutenant.
That changeth thus his manners.
Since you have shore
But not deliver'd. O, hear me breathe my life
As may be in the world, lady.
And hedged me by his wit, to yield myself
I pray you, let us see you in the field:
My pulse, as yours, doth temperately keep time,
I tore them from their bonds and cried aloud
Why will you mew her up,
Their iron indignation 'gainst your walls:
and so, away: no further with your din
Never to speak of this that you have seen,
Lord Clifford vows to fight in thy defence:
Attest in little place a million;
And when she put it on, she made me vow
The uncivil kerns of Ireland are in arms
These oracles are hardly attain'd,
sooth, thou wast in very gracious fooling last
And so beguile thy sorrow, till the heavens
Welcome, dear Proteus! Mistress, I beseech you,
Behoves me keep at utterance. I am perfect
Forbiddenly.
That hatred is so far from jealousy,
And with her breath she did perfume the air:
I nursed her daughter, that you talk'd withal;
Were to incense the boar to follow us
dauphin of France? Be it known unto thee by these
We will greet the time.
With any scruple; your scope is as mine own
So, Green, thou art the midwife to my woe,
Wert thou the Hector
Thou makest thy bloody pillow? Or who was he
By your leave, sir.
Nay, whom they shall obey, and love thee too,
It is an earnest of a further good
late is to be up late.
What was the speech among the Londoners
is no mean happiness therefore, to be seated in the
And how unwillingly I left the ring,
Alas! sir, it is worse for me than so;
Unless my study and my books be false,
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
never acted; or, if it was, not above once; for the
Things have fall'n out, sir, so unluckily,
But if you faint, as fearing to do so,
To bear a poison, I would temper it;
very notes of admiration: they seemed almost, with
He that doth naught with her, excepting one,
your ear; I would have no words of it,--my master
Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for
But she perforce withholds the loved boy,
beholding to your wives for: but he comes armed in
I'll never see 't; for, I am sure, my nails
I'll prat her.
How now! where's the king?
No, pardon; 'tis a secret must be locked within the
Forbear, Seleucus.
I am, in this, commanded to deliver
But lend it rather to thine enemy,
ANTIPHOLUS
These hands shall tear her; if they wrong her honour,
And himself. Not I,
By magic verses have contrived his end?
I did swear patience.
salvation, body and soul.
get his sinews to make catlings on.
Placing therein some expert officers,
There was a pretty redness in his lip,
Proof?
O barbarous and bloody spectacle!
Our trumpet call'd you to this gentle parle--
And that the people of this blessed land
From forth the noise and rumour of the field,
To which we all appeal.
Cup us, till the world go round!
That should consume it, I have not the face
Wedding is great Juno's crown:
Ha! Canterbury?
It is his highness' pleasure that the queen
also, to smell out work for the other senses. I see
Rather to show a noble grace to both parts
Who in contempt shall hiss at thee again:
As thieves to keepers.
Sir, there lies such secrets in this fardel and box,
Convenient numbers to make good the city;
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
Of hell would not in reputation change:
Farewell to thee too, Strato. Countrymen,
Thou speakest wiser than thou art ware of.
Thou bid'st me to my loss: for true to thee
Blessed are clouds, to do as such clouds do!
As Ovid be an outcast quite abjured:
Exeunt
I hope the king is not yet shipp'd for Ireland.
All pomp and majesty I do forswear;
This purse of ducats I received from you,
I do, hang me; i' faith, I will not. O, but her
Avaunt, thou dreadful minister of hell!
married a shepherd's daughter.
Then thus it must be; this doth Joan devise:
Out, devil! I remember them too well:
His Julia gave it him at his departure.
Count Claudio?
That shall have cause to curse the Dauphin's scorn.
Exeunt all but CARDINAL WOLSEY
Peace, headstrong Warwick!
With one 'We thank you' many thousands moe
thyself into the trick of singularity;' and
I love no chiders, sir. Biondello, let's away.
swearing rascals, that stale old mouse-eaten dry
Is come from Caesar; therefore hear it, Antony.
Go, some of you, whoe'er you find attach.
your honour,
The world's great snare uncaught?
I and ten thousand in this luckless realm
As cognizance of my blood-drinking hate,
Thy news Boyet?
A mote will turn the balance, which Pyramus, which
Come, sir, I pray you, go.
Nor bide the encounter of assailing eyes,
at home that will not
whose names yet run smoothly in the even road of a
O my sweet lady, pardon.
Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in:
swallowed love with singing love, sometime through
Should loosen him and me.
Some busy and insinuating rogue,
Orleans the Bastard, Charles, Burgundy,
But now I'll tell thee joyful tidings, girl.
And subjects none abroad: pray you, look in.
you shall find the ceremonies of the wars, and the
This she? no, this is Diomed's Cressida:
To make the base earth proud with kissing it:
Why keep we her? the Grecians keep our aunt:
To be whipped! What's his fault?
A long flourish. They all cry 'Marcius! Marcius!'  cast up their caps and lances: COMINIUS and LARTIUS stand bare
as braggarts do their blades, which God be thanked,
thou say, thou serge, nay, thou buckram lord! now
From Lionel Duke of Clarence, the third son
There, on the pendent boughs her coronet weeds
Forthwith for what you come. Where's Gardiner?
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
Why, this passes, Master Ford; you are not to go
I threw her overboard with these very arms.
He could never come better; he shall come in. I
Of what commands I should be subject to,
die; but that, my offences being many, I would
Have other some: why, 'tis a happy thing
Lord Cromwell of Wingfield, Lord Furnival of Sheffield,
The which my love and some necessity
Cast off his chains of bondage and embrace
And well shall you perceive how willingly
Too heavy for a man that hopes for heaven!
A twofold marriage, 'twixt my crown and me,
Observe, observe, he's moody.
I speak in understanding; you are; I know't:
And make my misery serve thy turn: so use it
True; out indeed.
Come, come, peace.
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse,
This quarrel will drink blood another day.
Very like a whale.
grave's this, sirrah?
But shall it be that you, that set the crown
Ere the leviathan can swim a league.
Our prayers to the gods, which is a comfort
hurts nobody.' 'Nay,' said I, 'the gentleman
Hereby, upon the edge of yonder coppice;
that our last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
Prithee, fellow, remember my name is Menenius,
Six or seven thousand is their utmost power.
ducks i' the river: go to, go to.
Madam, and you, my mother, will you go
Which sixteen winters cannot blow away,
With his weak function. How am I then a villain
The proudest he that holds up Lancaster,
A mess of Russians left us but of late.
The head of a bodkin.
The last of all the Romans, fare thee well!
You make amends.
Peace, drums!
glad thou canst speak no better English; for, if
Thou marshall'st me the way that I was going;
That is most certain.
thee with scambling, and thou must therefore needs
rate, and that hath taught me to say this:
Hast thou not worldly pleasure at command,
Ay, say you so? the gates shall then be open'd.
The world affords no law to make thee rich;
If that the earth could teem with woman's tears,
And bad'st me bury love.
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
But I will beard him.
Are less than horrible imaginings:
You have made fair work!
In faint retire. O, bravely came we off,
Upon a stranger?
Than Hector is: the wound of peace is surety,
No, sir; that were fast and loose: thou shalt to prison.
Enter ROMEO
And manifest experience had collected
Exeunt, fighting. Alarums
And then 'twas fresh in murmur,--as, you know,
Help, ho! murder! murder!
A very fresh-fish here--fie, fie, fie upon
A troubled mind drave me to walk abroad;
[Rising up]  Embowelled! if thou embowel me to-day,
Her father. I'll do something--
you will take it on you to assist him, it shall
Drums and trumpets sounded. Enter MARTIUS and  MUTIUS; After them, two Men bearing a coffin  covered with black; then LUCIUS and QUINTUS. After  them, TITUS ANDRONICUS; and then TAMORA, with  ALARBUS, DEMETRIUS, CHIRON, AARON, and other Goths,  prisoners; Soldiers and people following. The Bearers set down the coffin, and TITUS speaks
Adoptedly; as school-maids change their names
well; Lucifer, well; Barbason, well; yet they are
Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord.
If I have any grace or power to move you,
Welcome to Cyprus.
You may depend hereafter. Come, my lord.
Where is the duke my father with his power?
'Tis time to give 'em physic, their diseases
I will not re-salute the streets of Rome,
Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much
impieties for the which they are now visited. Every
My queen and son are gone to France for aid;
No weapons, sir. There comes my master, Master
A friend. What art thou?
To scorch your face and to disfigure you.
Cut him to pieces.
They are free men, but I am banished.
Come back, fool; this is the Duke of Suffolk, and
Look up, my lord.
For thou hast given me in this beauteous face
We have beat him to his camp: run one before,
To be disgraced by an inkhorn mate,
noise there? What are you?
Do you see this, O God?
tell you, captain, if you look in the maps of the
Shall of a corn cry woe,
I idly heard; if true or false I know not.
A woman lost among ye, laugh'd at, scorn'd?
The insulting hand of Douglas over you,
This is some priory. In, or we are spoil'd!
send him back again to my mother.
Therefore meet.
In the same pulpit whereto I am going,
No, faith, die by attorney. The poor world is
understand them.
every trade, we shall never prosper.
Thou weepest to make them drink, Timon.
To be a virtuous and well-govern'd youth:
With other princes that may best be spared,
a verb, and such abominable words as no Christian
But brats and beggary, in self-figured knot;
To keep the oath that we administer:
time: it opens the eyes of expectation:
This orient pearl. His speech sticks in my heart.
Do strike at my injustice.
Set from our o'ermatch'd forces forth for aid.
Claps on his sea-wing, and, like a doting mallard,
Come, you transgressing slave; away!
Thou canst not speak of that thou dost not feel:
The pale-faced moon looks bloody on the earth
Complots of mischief, treason, villanies
And free us from his slavery.
And welcome, all: although the cheer be poor,
Good madam, stay awhile; I will be faithful.
This is the state of man: to-day he puts forth
The wren goes to 't, and the small gilded fly
And champion me to the utterance! Who's there!
I am resolved that thou shalt spend some time
of you, like a foul-mouthed man as he is; and said
Withhold revenge, dear God! 'tis not my fault,
Thy name in arms were now as great as mine!
But now thou seem'st a coward.
A drum now of the enemy's,--
Such precious deeds in one that promises nought
She is your own; else, you must pardon me,
Go not away. What have you there, my friend?
Ay, my good lord.
That fellow is a fellow of much licence: let him be
Your generals after.
Yet none of you would once plead for his life.
But he, I thank him, gnaw'd in two my cords:
And bring our horses unto Long-lane end;
But he assails; and our virginity, though valiant,
'Confess' and 'love'
Open Thy gate of mercy, gracious God!
to thank me.' that's as much as to say, Any pains
I am so dishonour'd that the very hour
As full as thy report?
How fares my lord? Help, lords! the king is dead.
A moiety of the throne a great king's daughter,
His May of youth and bloom of lustihood.
Since what I am to say must be but that
Dispraise the thing that you desire to buy:
The congregated college have concluded
Though destiny say no. Be merry, gentle;
Beyond the river Sala, in the year
Madam, not so; I do beseech you, stay.
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
Macedon; and there is also moreover a river at
Nay,'tis true.
Dull; a man of good repute, carriage, bearing, and
minstrels; draw, to pleasure us.
Enter GRANDPRE
Wrong right, base noble, old young, coward valiant.
Conceal them, or thou diest.
Caesar's ambition shall be glanced at:
That make such waste in brief mortality.
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
Exit MARDIAN
Remain this ample third of our fair kingdom;
You elements that clip us round about,
I turn you not away; but, like a master
And that set together is noddy.
'Tis not a mile; briefly we heard their drums:
And mar men's spurring. Crack the lawyer's voice,
No, my lord, unless I might have another for
Do so. Farewell, both.
Master Malvolio?
[Reads]
Mistress Ford, I cannot cog, I cannot prate,
Whose honour and whose honesty till now
So he be dead; for that is good deceit
that I might see.
Through which our policy must make a breach:
SCENE I. A house in Rome.
The law of friendship bids me to conceal;
Come, Kate, thou art perfect in lying down: come,
Shut your mouth, dame,
Should see salvation: we do pray for mercy;
Content.
Alas poor York! but that I hate thee deadly,
That grief and patience, rooted in him both,
Mark what I say, which you shall find
antique, or firework. Now, understanding that the
her husband.
Command these fretting waters from your eyes
Exeunt
The present wars devour him: he is grown
Marry, as I told you before, John and Robert, be
And dress'd myself in such humility
Bartholomew-tide, blind, though they have their
Which is that Barnardine?
It was ourself thou didst abuse.
To o'erthrow law and in one self-born hour
Tongue-tied ambition, not replying, yielded
well cut,' he would say I lied: this is called the
Methinks thou speak'st not well.
beseech your highness, pardon me.
The graceless action of a heavy hand,
The ring of me to give the worthy doctor.
I shall do't.
Here's no sound jest! the old man hath found their guilt;
cannot choose; and to eat no fish.
As oft as any passion under heaven
The clock upbraids me with the waste of time.
Kneel down and take my blessing, good my girl.
My house was at the Phoenix? Wast thou mad,
Enter DIOMEDES
all the gibbets and pressed the dead bodies. No eye
To this supposed, or else to let him suffer;
Enter TRANIO, and the Pedant dressed like VINCENTIO
I will embrace
To look into the blots and stains of right:
Love you my son?
Then sigh not so, but let them go,
Something unfilial: reason my son
Tellest thou me of 'ifs'?  Thou art a traitor:
Two such controlling bounds shall you be, kings,
[Aside]  And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience.
Noble patricians, patrons of my right,
For in a minute there are many days:
Correction and instruction must both work
We will bestow ourselves.
To set a gloss on faint deeds, hollow welcomes,
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
put in the book of virtue!
[Reads]
Wouldst thou do such a deed for all the world?
If the winds rage, doth not the sea wax mad,
To Angelo
Which the gods have given you?
But, since thy outside looks so fair and warlike,
Now Margaret's curse is fallen upon my head;
Whom with my bare fists I would execute,
Though ne'er so black, say they have angels' faces.
I doubt not, I, but we shall soon persuade
Who saw the sun to-day?
Come, let us in, and with all speed provide
Shall it for shame be spoken in these days,
When in your motion you are hot and dry--
I am a gentleman of a company.
Clock strikes
Which I can call but now, I have heard strange news.
And his physicians fear him mightily.
Where art thou, death?
Like high-rear'd bulwarks, stand before our faces;
The younger then is free and not before.
That is, to live and study here three years.
back again.
Exit CASSIO
By Jupiter, I swear, no.
Give me thy hand.
In me it seems it will make wise men mad.
Where is the enemy? are you lords o' the field?
We are not, sir, nor are we like to be;
Comest thou with deep premeditated lines,
Still me?
Be bloody, bold, and resolute; laugh to scorn
Let fortune go to hell for it, not I.
Oppose thy steadfast-gazing eyes to mine,
I do desire thy worthy company,
Reads from a scroll
Let me commend thee first to those that shall
Renowned queen, with patience calm the storm,
Make gallant show and promise of their mettle;
Troubles the silver spring where England drinks.
Now would I give a thousand furlongs of sea for an
On Holy-rood day, the gallant Hotspur there,
again such preposterous discoveries!
I prithee, sweet wag, when thou art king, as, God
Ay, ay, for this I draw in many a tear
PUBLIUS,  and c. lay hold on CHIRON and DEMETRIUS
We do not throw in unrespective sieve,
How deep?
I never long'd to hear a word till now;
But that he swore to take, our lives? The law
Amen: I thank thee.
A cold world, Curtis, in every office but thine; and
Not soon provoked nor being provoked soon calm'd:
Murder'd sweet Tully; Brutus' bastard hand
God be wi' you; fare you well.
The lass I spoke of.
Which of these sorrows is he subject to?
Thou know'st we parted: but perhaps, my son,
Was ever woman in this humour won?
When better fall, for your avails they fell:
Of merchant-marring rocks?
On pain of punishment, the world to weet
Which draught to me were cordial.
That whoso draws a sword, 'tis present death,
DON
Should leave the helm and like a fearful lad
As once our mother; use like note and words,
That all those eyes adored them ere their fall
And yet, forsooth, she is a virgin pure.
That brings me food to make misfortune live?
Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground,
false. Here, Claudio, I have wooed in thy name, and
Almost the copy of my child that's dead,
Think on the Tower and me: despair, and die!
gurnet. I have misused the king's press damnably.
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends,
And thou hast given me most bitter terms.
Exeunt ROSALINE and KATHARINE
But sadly tell me who.
This last day was
Vow, Burgundy, by honour of thy house,
fool hath much pined away.
A virtuous maid, the daughter of a count
That we the pain of death would hourly die
And stand unshaken yours.
Foolish curs, that run winking into the mouth of a
Finds bottom in the uncomprehensive deeps,
And will not hear it. What committed!
her horse stumbled, how she waded through the dirt
give me your hand. How does your drum?
Help, masters!--Here's a goodly watch indeed!
We did keep time, sir, in our catches. Sneck up!
Such as the shortness of the time can shape;
indifferent red; item, two grey eyes, with lids to
What will become of this? As I am man,
Go to, then.
I was so unfortunate a beggar.
The bishop and the Duke of Gloucester's men,
wears a lock.
Out of sight and raise this present head;
I shall laugh myself to death at this puppy-headed
What news, Sir Thomas Lovell?
If he had been as you and you as he,
In good troth, it begins so.
And that his country's dearer than himself;
That silk will I go buy.
Unregister'd in vulgar fame, you have
Thou hast the strength of will to slay thyself,
That man may question? You seem to understand me,
Between my father and my mother lay,
My lord?
And twenty of these puny lies I'll tell,
We would as willingly give cure as know.
The body's delicate: the tempest in my mind
My life were better ended by their hate,
Why, any cloak will serve the turn, my lord.
Upon his visage, and that all the walls
Is but a substance that must yield to you;
Let her alone: speak not of Helena;
To KENT and EDGAR
sonnets already: the clown bore it, the fool sent
easy it is to put 'years' to the word 'three,' and
Hard as the palm of ploughman: this thou tell'st me,
What treason were it to the ransack'd queen,
My sword i' the life-blood of thee else. My lords,
Now, by this light, were I to get again,
How lush and lusty the grass looks! how green!
Your hearts will throb and weep to hear him speak.
And in a vision full of majesty
I said so, dear Katharine; and I must not blush to
I do embrace thee, as I would embrace
Hear patiently my purpose: I'll disrobe me
Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crests;
Forty let it be:
If the king please; his curses and his blessings
You that way and you this, but two in company;
Let's see;
that gives it. Let no assembly of twenty be without
His thread of life had not so soon decay'd:
Should have ta'en vengeance on my faults, I never
I swear again, I would not be a queen
Than when thou wert protector to thy King.
A plague upon the tyrant that I serve!
She is alone the Arabian bird, and I
And treacherously hast thou vanquish'd him,
Exeunt
Our reasons laid before him, hath commanded
He's too big to go in there. What shall I do?
Say what you can, my false o'erweighs your true.
No; it is false, if it is a pick-purse.
water; not a drop before: therefore bear up, and
As we rate boys, who, being mature in knowledge,
A back-friend, a shoulder-clapper, one that
Call him hither to me, soldier.
Not in my house, Lucentio; for, you know,
When I did him at this advantage take,
See, by good hap, yonder's my lord;
Did you ever hear such railing?
Had I your tongues and eyes, I'ld use them so
Exit
And weak we are and cannot shun pursuit.
I' faith, coz, 'tis he.
So full-replete with choice of all delights,
Enter to the Protector at the Tower Gates BISHOP OF WINCHESTER and his men in tawny coats
Who shall begin?
How you excuse my brother, Rosalind.
And now by law, as well as reverend age,
Being entertained for a perfumer, as I was smoking a
What Venus did with Mars.
Exit, above
Saw'st thou him enter at the abbey here?
That's not my fault: he's master of my state:
But he, his own affections' counsellor,
He did, from first to last: why dost thou ask?
Come on;
To my revenge: but in my terms of honour
To understand a law, to know the meaning
Or I mistake you: O, would her name were Grace!
Even at that time I may be married too.
Say that King Edward take thee for his queen?
I should woo hard but be your groom. In honesty,
Here come the Lords of Ross and Willoughby,
Then love me, Rosalind.
So please you, he is here at the door and importunes
Then sigh not so,  and c.
Pluck them asunder.
Not sick, although I have to do with death,
SCENE VII. Another part of the plains.
Did bear him like a noble gentleman.
I tell you, lords, you do but plot your deaths
Brave peers of England, pillars of the state,
What instance of the contrary?
Yea, and I will weep a while longer.
due of a bawd, why, 'tis his right: bawd is he
Inferring arguments of mighty force.
Measure us back to Naples? Keep in Tunis,
Tom hath been scared out of his good wits: bless
Now, sir, you speak of two
good, sir, to rise and be put to death.
Did they this Harry. Now in London place him;
wit near him, that railed upon me till her pinked
O, fear me not.
Nay, very pale.
I know not.
Sir, lend me your arm.
your French heart, I will be glad to hear you
Caesar, thy thoughts
Hath not a tomb so evident as a chair
Sir, the king is a noble gentleman, and my familiar,
And they, well mock'd, depart away with shame.
I and my sword will earn our chronicle:
Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale, by
And yet to charge thy sulphur with a bolt
Exeunt
When you have done, we look to hear from you.
You may imagine him upon Blackheath;
Methinks you are too much of late i' the frown.
Exeunt Lords
Observe degree, priority and place,
As Dian bade: whereto being bound,
the dog?' 'Ay, marry, do I,' quoth he. 'You do him
To be a comrade with the wolf and owl,--
The mere effusion of thy proper loins,
That still records with moan; or when
Painting is welcome.
home indeed?
And you as well to keep her, that defend her,
Well, my lord.
There is no tongue that moves, none, none i' the world,
Because, my lord, we would have had you heard
Are grown so catching.
Exeunt
Enter PUBLIUS and others
Peace, foolish woman.
Bonfires in France forthwith I am to make,
The virtue that possession would not show us
Where is my wife?
But they shall find, awaked in such a kind,
Then, Angelo, thy fault's thus manifested;
What beast! why, an otter.
God pardon thee! yet let me wonder, Harry,
Alas, poor Maccabaeus, how hath he been baited!
against it; for man is a giddy thing, and this is my
His word was still,--Fie, foh, and fum,
but in all things? wherein worthy, but in nothing?
Than Cressid borne from Troy.
refused it, the rabblement hooted and clapped their
As I am subtle, false and treacherous,
Provokes the mightiest hulk against the tide,
Exit
Till Harry's back-return again to France:
Be not to be a strumpet, I am none.
Sound a flourish. Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, marching with drum and Soldiers
That I will shortly send thy soul to heaven,
O, by this count I shall be much in years
Good angels guard thy battle! live, and flourish!
Exit EDGAR
The noble Antony.
My blood hath been too cold and temperate,
Well, I'll end the song. Sirs, cover the while; the
How should they, when that wise men have no eyes?
To Lacedaemon did my land extend.
And yet she takes exceptions at your person.
A present murderer does prepare
O, very well, my lord: the music ended,
Enter BEVIS, with Lord SAY
woman: and so, I pray thee, call Beatrice: I give
Why, sir, if I cannot serve you, I can serve as
Gloucester's men rush at the Tower Gates, and WOODVILE the Lieutenant speaks within
Coriolanus neither to care whether they love or hate
I am informed thoroughly of the cause.
he married but his occasion here.
I'll nothing do on charge: to her own worth
Sir, I beseech you, think you he'll carry Rome?
I would I had been there.
If not a feodary, but only he
Hath now himself met with the fall of leaf:
Never speak: we charge you let us obey you to go with us.
Here is a letter; read it at your leisure;
Enter RICHARD and SOMERSET to fight. SOMERSET is killed
They in themselves, good-sooth, are too too light.
Mine heir from forth the beggars of the world,
I thank you, sir.
our element we know nothing. Come down, you witch,
pale.--I tell you yet again, Banquo's buried; he
SCENE VI. The same. A room in the brothel.
And, when I am forgotten, as I shall be,
Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought;
O, much I fear some ill unlucky thing.
And in the neck of that, task'd the whole state:
Remember whom you are to cope withal;
Upon his bloody finger he doth wear
No Rome of safety for Octavius yet;
O unbid spite! is sportful Edward come?
as a drunken sleep; careless, reckless, and fearless
He that bereft thee, lady, of thy husband,
Than she to scant her duty.
And true subjection everlastingly.
Those that with haste will make a mighty fire
He cannot want the best
Good Costard, go with me. Sir, God save your life!
That my report is just and full of truth.
And I must know it, else he loves me not.
Did he receive you well?
But--dost thou hear?--most bloody.
Will fall some blessing to this land, which shall
'Tis midnight, Charles;
Behind our rock; and let it to the sea,
And on their skins, as on the bark of trees,
Or have a woman to your lord:
That some plain man recount their purposes
You embrace your charge too willingly. I think this
If I but knew him, with my love and duty
But 'gainst your privacy
would have nothing lie on my head: I cannot be thus satisfied.
If thou be'st rated by thy estimation,
It is my soul that calls upon my name:
The pedant, the braggart, the hedge-priest, the fool
Whom God hath join'd together; ay, and 'twere pity
Lament we may, but not revenge thee dead.
Give me the letter, sir.
See thou deliver it to my lord and father.
Alarum. Here another skirmish
to that nourishment which is called supper: so much
You may do your will;
Sir, but I do; or else I would be hence.
Of all men else I have avoided thee:
I have no further gone in this than by
I now am full resolved to take a wife
We'll not run, Monsieur Monster.
No longer than we well could wash our hands
Know, if you kill me for my fault, I should
That misbegotten devil, Faulconbridge,
Deliver up my title in the queen
Uncle, your grace knows how to bear with him.
[To KING CLAUDIUS]  O, ho! do you mark that?
thou ever see me do such a trick?
News have I, that my Nell is dead i' the spital
'Coram.'
Exeunt all but LAFEU and PAROLLES
counsel and understand what advice shall thrust upon
That you would put me to this shame and trouble;
a spaniel. Come your ways.
If they should speak, would almost damn those ears,
ACT IV
O yes, an 'twere a cloud in autumn.
Publius, how now! how now, my masters!
pestiferous reports of men very nobly held, can
For every minute is expectancy
So he does indeed.
You, you, ay, you!
What, a coward, Sir John Paunch?
Exeunt
Live with authority: so soon we shall drive back
Your majestee ave fausse French enough to deceive de
All matter else seems weak: she cannot love,
But not away to-morrow!
And what they undid did.
With Romeo, till I behold him--dead--
To think our former state a happy dream;
If we choose by the horns, yourself come not near.
Following the fliers at the very heels,
I will hear further reason for this.
For my part, I had rather bear with you than bear
Is not itself, nor have we won one foot,
worthy to live. Thou dost ride in a foot-cloth, dost thou not?
Agree between you; I will spare my hand.
My ring away. This course I fittest choose;
I do extend him, sir, within himself,
on him? I think the best way were to entertain him
Of secret on her person, that he could not
lustrous as ebony; and yet complainest thou of
Give but that portion which yourself proposed,
Going
If I could have remembered a gilt counterfeit, thou
Wished, my lord! The gods grant,--O my lord!
Of war-mark'd footmen; leave unexecuted
Teem with new monsters, whom thy upward face
Or would have done't myself. Your emperor
In a sweet verbal brief, it did concern
Long live Lord Titus, my beloved brother,
Witness this wretched stump, witness these crimson lines;
Must make content with his fortunes fit,
Ha! fie, these filthy vices! It were as good
Then I must be thy lady: but I know
No note upon my parents, his all noble:
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear:
I'll wait upon you instantly.
disgrace Hero before the whole assembly. and not marry her.
I would breed from hence occasions, and I shall,
And with your blood and it I'll make a paste,
She being none of your flesh and blood, your flesh
I will do't, my lord.
beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
He will maintain you like a gentlewoman.
Ay, you spake in Latin then too; but 'tis no
The way that they did, and to grin like lions
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,--
But Cassius is no more. O setting sun,
A pair of star-cross'd lovers take their life;
That of all things upon the earth he hated
But we in it shall be remember'd;
SCENE III. A hall in the castle.
Thy latest words. In the reproof of chance
Thy grave admonishments prevail with me:
Did you hear of a stranger that's come to court to-night?
love thee,
when thou hast tired thyself in base comparisons,
Either get thee from the door, or sit down at the hatch.
Exit AEdile
There is a mystery--with whom relation
In thee thy mother dies, our household's name,
As you like this, give me the lie another time.
They say she's mad.
O most divine Kate!
Not for the world, fair madam, by my will.
What think you, if he were convey'd to bed,
More fell than anguish, hunger, or the sea!
I think it be no other but e'en so:
Or it hath drawn me rather. But 'tis gone.
The king's eyes, that so long have slept upon
She intends unto his holiness.
What might import my sister's letter to him?
What is she?
As Angelo; even so may Angelo,
Farewell, good Strato.
And Gabriel's pumps were all unpink'd i' the heel;
You are for dreams and slumbers, brother priest;
What is thy name?
These thoughts of horror further than you shall
His leg is too big for Hector's.
him the fair Desdemona, unless his abode be
Besides, if things go well,
Must I do so? and must I ravel out
[Coming forward]
Buckles in his sum of age;
Than is her custom: it is still her use
All, if you will; for I myself am best
vill cut his ears.
How many hours bring about the day;
Away, I say!
From where he circumscribed with his sword,
Makes me from wondering fall to weeping joys;
To one above itself. Each following day
Acquaint you with the perfect spy o' the time,
Puts my apparel and my countenance on,
Take but degree away, untune that string,
You go about to torture me in vain.
semblable is his mirror; and who else would trace
Dapples the drowsy east with spots of grey.
Why, no; for he hath made a solemn vow
She would sit still and weep.
Doctor Caius,--
He is sir Robert's son, and so art thou.
He hugg'd me in his arms, and swore, with sobs,
hence, and not a word; for here comes more company.
And let thy Suffolk take his heavy leave.
How you may hurt yourself, ay, utterly
Women to change their shapes than men their minds.
And on my head did set the diadem.
What a plague means my niece, to take the death of
Which very manners urges.
When, I beseech you? that in his reprieve,
So be it!
Who dream'd, who thought of such a thing?'
And all the world was of my father's mind:
Should fear to seize thee: therefore be double damn'd:
For certain words he spake against your grace
her dispraise those parts in me that you love with
Think on my words.
Passing through nature to eternity.
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood,
My lords ambassadors, your several suits
is a basket: if he be of any reasonable stature, he
Ay, sir; we are some of her trappings.
With rocks unscalable and roaring waters,
Harry to Harry shall, hot horse to horse,
Sir, I pray you, a word: what lady is that same?
As by the strength of their illusion
Set on your foot,
I'ld have you do it ever: when you sing,
I read in's looks
To his unnatural purpose, in fell motion,
I thank you. Let's withdraw;
hadst been still with me, I could have taught my
Sometime I'll say, I am Duke Humphrey's wife,
For they that were your enemies are his,
Who were the motives that you first went out;
Exit
But for their owner, master, and yourself.
I will o'ertake thee, Cleopatra, and
Might in the times to come have ta'en revenge,
My thanks and duty are your majesty's.
Which in my childhood I did dote upon;
hanging, yields a careful man work.
An it had not fallen flat-long.
Do not desire to see this letter.
So that, as clear as is the summer's sun.
That bows unto the grave with mickle age.
his miseries, Britain be fortunate and flourish in
If he be, he knows how to turn his girdle.
My wife! my wife! what wife? I have no wife.
Unpolicied!
Much castigation, exercise devout;
Though now we must appear bloody and cruel,
Here by the cheeks I'll drag thee up and down.
The juice of it on sleeping eye-lids laid
But, you must know, your father lost a father;
death! Two o'clock is your hour?
O, would the king, Biron, and Longaville,
The blind and bloody soldier with foul hand
Give me my Romeo; and, when he shall die,
Or whether since he is advised by aught
Then are we all undone.
Villains, set down the corse; or, by Saint Paul,
Then the liars and swearers are fools,
That, were my state far worser than it is,
And groaning underneath this age's yoke,
To greet a man not worth her pains, much less
You wager'd on your angling; when your diver
I doubt not of his temperance.
you, coach after coach, letter after letter, gift
Thou strikest not me, 'tis Caesar thou defeat'st.
Be well advised, tell o'er thy tale again:
Wherefore you are not paid.
In proof whereof, there is my honour's pawn;
I would invent as bitter-searching terms,
Danger and disobedience in thine eye:
And let mischance be slave to patience.
Ha! who calls?
Being moved, he will not spare to gird the gods.
By being once false for ever to be true
He sends so poor a pinion off his wing,
Farewell, my lord: I as your lover speak;
Against my fire; and wast thou fain, poor father,
Or am I mad, hearing him talk of Juliet,
SCENE III. A room in PETRUCHIO'S house.
Lo, now my glory smear'd in dust and blood!
Has done this, and 'tis well; for worthy Wolsey,
Excellent! Your lordship's a goodly villain. The
virtue to practise his judgment with the disposition
Be silent; let's see further.
Timon hath made his everlasting mansion
Were there in arms, they would be as a call
To those of mine in court: I'll stay at home
It fits we thus proceed, or else no witness
First, she confess'd she never loved you, only
Him that you term'd, sir, 'The good old lord Gonzalo;'
'Tis well there's one above 'em yet. I had thought
There's more depends on this than on the value.
Though there the people had more absolute power,
In the quick forge and working-house of thought,
And in the spirit of men there is no blood:
Guide thou the sword.
The meaning, pretty ingenious?
Through casements darted their desiring eyes
Avaunt! be gone! thou hast set me on the rack:
By violent swiftness, that which we run at,
Tell him this tale; and from the mouth of England
'His meanest garment!' Well.
Now will I write letters to Angelo,--
I like it well. France, shall we knit our powers
will trust his wife; he will not be jealous. I will
Madding my eagerness with her restraint,
Enter three Murderers
prince of chivalry!
Convey me to my bed, then to my grave:
A most harsh one, and not to be understood without
Follow and see there be no harm between them.
Lord George your brother, Norfolk and myself,
Why, then, God forgive me!
the face of the gods.
Stay, Jaques, stay.
That going shall be used with feet.
Who lack not virtue, no, nor power, but that
was done to Elbow's wife, that he hath cause to
unworthy thinking: I dare you to this match: here's my ring.
Romeo, will you come to your father's? we'll
As well as I can, madam.
Ratcliff!
Then I salute you with this kingly title:
And thou, and I, sit round about some fountain,
other reason but because thou hast hazel eyes: what
To one thing constant never:
My liege, I did deny no prisoners.
Arm, arm, my lord; the foe vaunts in the field.
And say 'God quit you!' be familiar with
You lords and noble friends, know our intent.
What need the bridge much broader than the flood?
And that I did deny my wife and house.
No? Saw you not, even now, a blessed troop
To give this day a crown to mighty Caesar.
That chides the banks of England, Scotland, Wales,
I do believe,
And thereupon these errors are arose.
Your sudden approbation.
Will not so graceless be to be ingrate.
The well-lost life of mine on his grace's cure
Ay, madam, twenty several messengers:
Should you do so, my lord,
Good Master Brook, I desire more acquaintance of you.
Where when men been, there's seldom ease;
Appear thus to us?
He not respects at all. What, ho, Pisanio!
Master, this prisoner freely give I thee;
The self-same way with more advised watch,
Ay, please your grace.
A spirit, a spirit: he says his name's poor Tom.
That 'banished,' that one word 'banished,'
Than greatness going off.
And under-honest, in self-assumption greater
Enter a Messenger
Returns us that his powers are yet not ready
But O, thy wife!
Ay, and her father is make her a petter penny.
From envious malice of thy swelling heart.
If he took you a box o' the ear, you might have your
Enter KING, frowning on them; takes his seat
If they demand: beware of being captives,
he might know none of his secrets: now do I see he
You have said now.
War with mankind.
That else must perish here.
None.
lost my crupper, with many things of worthy memory,
O, do ye read, my lord, what she hath writ?
With hair up-staring,--then like reeds, not hair,--
Exeunt
too hard for my wits and all the tribe of hell, thou
To keep the horsemen off from breaking in.
O, then his lines would ravish savage ears
To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,
perfecter giber for the table than a necessary
So, to our tent;
I have a little yet to say. Look there, my lords;
Send him to answer thee, or any man,
But not take in the mind.
Make peace with God, for you must die, my lord.
That may convey my greetings, love, to thee.
Enter CLAUDIO, BEATRICE, HERO, and LEONATO
patent to offend; for, if it touch not you, it comes
What England says, say briefly, gentle lord;
Iago is most honest.
We will talk no more of this matter.
Is nothing left me but my body's length.
Have now the fatal object in my eye
Though they had wings: slave, soulless villain, dog!
Thus do go about, about:
Lady, wherefore talk you so?
Taken from Paul's to be interred there;
With nothing shall be pleased, till he be eased
Or bid me go into a new-made grave
That brought you forth this boy, to keep your name
answered her; my very visor began to assume life and
With good old folks and let them tell thee tales
Than shame to the Romans: and we here deliver,
Enter HAMLET, HORATIO, and MARCELLUS
high-steward. With him, NORFOLK, with the
I am heartily sorry that he'll be glad of this.
Was wont to swell like round and orient pearls,
You orphan heirs of fixed destiny,
ACT III
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack;
A vessel rides fast by, but not prepared
Call Claudius and some other of my men:
the even of it.
So many miseries have crazed my voice,
les mots aussi droit que les natifs d'Angleterre.
I hope, for my brother's justification, he wrote
Exit Falstaff
Wave thus, to express his disposition,
Yet every mother breeds not sons alike:
with thee.
Say on, my loving lord.
speak to him, I will open my lips in vain, or
To be sent after me.
And try if they can gain your liberty.
More than, I fear, you are provided for.
And thus I win thee.
When thou didst ride in triumph through the streets.
All hearts against us: Edmund, I think, is gone,
You'll not endure him! God shall mend my soul!
These both put by a poor petitioner,
What thou shouldst be: the occasion speaks thee, and
To yield me often tidings: neither know I
Thus do I ever make my fool my purse:
Which for some reasons, sir, I mean to see.
He said mine eyes were black and my hair black:
Even as I have of fertile England's soil.
For our first merriment hath made thee jealous.
Would seem hyperboles. At this fusty stuff
O you gods!
The English army is grown weak and faint:
You will catch cold, and curse me.
That quarrels at self-breath: imagined worth
To OLIVER
A trusty villain, sir, that very oft,
By your furtherance I am clothed in steel;
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight;
Both strength of limb and policy of mind,
Will not King Richard let me speak with him?
Contagion to this world: now could I drink hot blood,
Was still inscribed; in which you brought the king
her help to put you in your place again: she is of
York set him on to fight and die in shame,
Died with their swords in hand; for which
And yet with charity. He was a man
His daughters seek his death: ah, that good Kent!
Let him go hence, and with his cap in hand,
Enter DOCTOR CAIUS
Re-enter GLOUCESTER
These fifteen years! by my fay, a goodly nap.
And name thee in election for the empire,
Go bear this lance to Thomas, Duke of Norfolk.
Exeunt
Who crown'd the gracious duke in high despite,
Where my son lies. When did you lose your daughter?
I was too strict to make mine own away;
Deceive me not now, Navarre is infected.
ACT III
PAULINA draws a curtain, and discovers HERMIONE standing like a statue
Early though't be, have on their riveted trim,
There is no vice so simple but assumes
Sir Nathaniel, will you hear an extemporal epitaph
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
Of great revenue, and she hath no child:
I am amazed at your passionate words.
The west yet glimmers with some streaks of day:
But clay and clay differs in dignity,
indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
Never to wash his face, nor cut his hairs:
And fear not lords, and you, Lavinia;
A creature unprepared, unmeet for death;
It beggar'd all description: she did lie
Enter SALANIO and SALARINO
Nor I.
I love to cope him in these sullen fits,
Enter DUKE OF YORK
Why tender'st thou that paper to me, with
into a desperate assurance she will none of him:
Instance, briefly; come, instance.
fourth, the Reproof Valiant; the fifth, the
That steals the colour from Bassanio's cheek:
The woman's; flattering, hers; deceiving, hers;
Ay, marry, am I, sir; and now 'tis plotted.
One calls within 'Juliet.'
To hug with swine, to seek sweet safety out
She have restrain'd the riots of your followers,
Give with our niece a dowry large enough:
And comes to his election presently.
Although they want the use of tongue, a kind
You lords and heads o' the state, perfidiously
Why, all these should be in the lanthorn; for all
I know not, Marcus; but I know it is,
take Antenor! the young prince will go mad: a
Alack. I love myself. Wherefore?  for any good
Why, how now, lords! your wrathful weapons drawn
Now, now, you stars that move in your right spheres,
The swifter speed the better.
Why, how now, Hamlet!
And all-to topple: pure surprise and fear
The third of the five vowels, if you repeat them; or
And here is writ 'love-wounded Proteus.'
Some horrible conceit: if thou dost love me,
grave-maker?
Against the hospitable canon, would I
For idiots in this case of favour would
I could endure any thing before but a cat, and now
Enter BRUTUS and CASSIUS, and a throng of Citizens
Music, awake her; strike!
Yes, lord, her father is a king,
Who bow'd but in my stirrup, bend like his
Write, 'Lord have mercy on us' on those three;
The birds chant melody on every bush,
So please it you, my lord, 'twere not amiss
A dry jest, sir.
Surely, sir,
And find the welcome of a noble foe.
Your trusty and most valiant servitor,
A rush, a hair, a drop of blood, a pin,
You may behold confusion of your foes.
And thou shalt still remain the Duke of York.
His presence at the tyrant's feast, I hear
Pays dear for my offences.
life, long, and ever happy, to the high and mighty
Look to the queen there, ho!
It honour'd him.
O, God ye god-den.
there were not two or three and fifty upon poor old
have purchased as many diseases under her roof as come to--
SCENE II. Paris. The KING's palace.
Against yourself: I know you are no truant.
Think you so, sir?
Prithee, hold thy peace.
For any suit of pounds; and you, O fate!
I will send him hither to you presently.
Alarums. Enter MARK ANTONY and SCARUS wounded
Travel you far on, or are you at the farthest?
Mistress of passion, sways it to the mood
of the sun's! if thou didst, then behold that compound.
And a demand who is't shall die, I'd say
So in the Lethe of thy angry soul
I pray God he be not, I say.
Prithee, no more.
For patience she will prove a second Grissel,
And give me signs of future accidents.
And every measure fail me.
Saucy controller of our private steps!
O, thou wilt speak again of banishment.
BISHOP
Go, Bushy, to the Earl of Wiltshire straight:
This is a gift that I have, simple, simple; a
The sun of heaven methought was loath to set,
with a medlar: then it will be the earliest fruit
And not a jot of Tranio in your mouth:
I protest, in the sincerity of love and honest kindness.
Exeunt
As it is like him--might break out, and swear
Come not before him.
Chief master-gunner am I of this town;
No, 'faith; she let it drop by negligence.
Nor will he know his purse, or yield me this,
I think so. Kill'd!
His hand to wield a sceptre, and himself
Answering before we do demand of them.
To look upon my sometimes royal master's face.
If you know aught which does behove my knowledge
Hath done this deed on Caesar. For your part,
basket again, to meet him at the door with it, as
By the pricking of my thumbs,
Did I not meet thy friends? and did not they
Who is it that can tell me who I am?
Upon my banishment: I moved her to't,
And by and by thy bosom shall partake
The handle toward my hand? Come, let me clutch thee.
And constant do remain to keep him so.
Do you not know me, father?
O barbarous, beastly villains, like thyself!
Before he go to bed. I'll take my leave.
That he in sport doth call his Rosalind.
Which you knew none of yours: what might you think?
Writ to your grace from the Duke of Burgundy.
How like a deer, strucken by many princes,
Upon the altar at Saint Edmundsbury;
The copy of your speed is learn'd by them;
Had he been vanquisher; as, by the same covenant,
Re-enter the BASTARD OF ORLEANS, with JOAN LA PUCELLE
Your only choice.
In himself he is;
A widow, then?
And more he would have said, and more he spoke,
I will reward you for this venturous deed.
What misadventure is so early up,
What then?
The emptying of our fathers' luxury,
much. No, he shall not knit a knot in his fortunes
Go in to Troy, and say there, Hector's dead:
In doing it, pays itself. Your highness' part
Enter a Messenger
rivelled fee-simple of the tetter, take and take
Exit
If any such there be, heaven pardon him!
Since virtue finds no friends--a wife, a true one?
Lamentable! What,
If thou hadst said him nay, it had been sin:
Enter BUCKINGHAM
And what thou think'st his very action speaks
Madam, they are for you.
greatness to impart to Armado, a soldier, a man of
Aside
Biondello, what of that?
Or your own honour to contain the ring,
Enter PATROCLUS
Great men may jest with saints; 'tis wit in them,
As make your bouts more violent to that end--
after my name; call them all Pandars; let all
Why, then, let a soldier drink.
Go, get thee hence, for I will not away.
contrary, if Hero would be my wife.
And makest an oath the surety for thy truth
greater that I am subdued. Would the cook were of
What! doth my uncle Burgundy revolt?
Must I go show them my unbarbed sconce?
'Tis better thee without than he within.
a dishclout of Jaquenetta's, and that a' wears next
Presenting a small box
How will their grudging stomachs be provoked
at his dog:
[Aside to GUILDENSTERN]  What say you?
Her vestal livery is but sick and green
When, lo! to interrupt my purposed rest,
Conduct me to the queen.
They shall be famed; for there the sun shall greet them,
I thank thee for that gird, good Tranio.
If you do find him, pray you, give him this;
Come hither, captain.
she would sooner confess: perchance, publicly,
But now, my lord.
The like of him. Know'st thou this country?
Still waving, as the fits and stirs of 's mind
I have got, in exchange of a hundred and fifty
hath no lean wardrobe. 'Sblood, I am as melancholy
Most generous and free from all contriving,
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd:
Of good and bad, that makes and unfolds error,
time gives it proof. I did love you once.
I peseech you heartily, scurvy, lousy knave, at my
The way into his mercy: nay, if he coy'd
For fair without the fair within to hide:
Did make wolves howl and penetrate the breasts
sure of it. To express the like kindness, myself,
A subtle knave! but yet it shall not serve.
Still ride in triumph over all mischance.
And thus I prophesy, that many a thousand,
If I gave them all my living, I'ld keep my coxcombs
negligence, nothing of my purpose.
With solemn reverence: throw away respect,
life! I want work.' 'O my sweet Harry,' says she,
Exit
hath gelded the commonwealth, and made it an eunuch:
I am thy father's spirit,
Leontes, king of Sicilia, thou art here accused and
It's dry, sir.
And consequence of dread, that I committed
Camillo was his help in this, his pander:
Henry is able to enrich his queen
Welcome, my lords. I wot your love pursues
By'r lakin, a parlous fear.
Either are past remedies, or, timely knowing,
And wish his mistress were that kind of fruit
Of some such thing?
I will with patience hear, and find a time
Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee,
have me? Put off your maiden blushes; avouch the
If Marcius should be join'd with Volscians,--
For what he has he gives, what thinks he shows;
your lordship.
Follow'd the old man forth: he is return'd.
Ay, but give me worship and quietness;
France, thou mayst hold a serpent by the tongue,
To the prince and his bookmates.
Both you and I; for Romeo is exiled:
I'll look to like, if looking liking move:
than follow him like a dwarf.
On some odd time of his infirmity,
We have: whereupon the Earl of Worcester
O, 'tis a fault too too unpardonable!
As I suppose, to Robert Faulconbridge,
O, behold,
How chance the roses there do fade so fast?
For, as I hear, he was much bound for you.
And let our hearts and eyes, like civil war,
SCENE IV. Florence. The Widow's house.
Rosalind is your love's name?
thankful! And when she went away now, 'Let this
We may as bootless spend our vain command
turkey-cocks. God pless you, Aunchient Pistol! you
But such a headstrong potent fault it is,
Our merchants' goods at Bourdeaux.
you fearful, that neither my coat, integrity, nor
Know, worthy prince, Sir Valentine, my friend,
See, not a man in private conference
If e'er thou look'dst on majesty.
Yes, indeed: thou wouldst make a good fool.
Repairs itself by rest. Our Tarquin thus
In those unfledged days was my wife a girl;
Enter three or four Conspirators of AUFIDIUS' faction
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
We love our people well; even those we love
My lords, you are appointed for that office;
Aaron, it must; the mother wills it so.
Peace shall go sleep with Turks and infidels,
Nothing, my lord.
That nature, which contemns its origin,
pulled down?
here, Cassio,
That the life-weary taker may fall dead
My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers;
insinuation, as it were, in via, in way, of
said he then?
Like a full-acorn'd boar, a German one,
Let me go, I say.
We must not now displease him.
Do deeds to make heaven weep, all earth amazed;
O that I knew he were but in by the week!
Emilia run you to the citadel,
is a gallant child; one that indeed physics the
I shall, my liege.
and that were enough to hang us all.
A plague upon you all! His royal person,--
And all too soon, I fear, the king shall rue.
'Twas time, I trow, to wake and leave our beds,
I do embrace your offer; and dispose
I am more bound to you than your fellows, for they
Save what beats there. Filial ingratitude!
Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.
Thou hast sworn it more to me:
Beat at this gate, that let thy folly in,
He came alive to land.
In all your business and necessities.
And unregarded age in corners thrown:
Of thy sharp envy. Can no prayers pierce thee?
And that, my state being gall'd with my expense,
Nay, that I can deny by a circumstance.
Rich stuffs, and ornaments of household; which
Exeunt
You will not bail me, then, sir?
Spur post, and get before him to the king,
are born great, some achieve greatness, and some
And buckle in a waist most fathomless
why 'silver sound'? why 'music with her silver
That thou adorest and hast in reverence,
Or blessed was't we did?
Of one entire and Perfect chrysolite,
And may diseases lick up their false bloods!
Fly not; stand stiff: ambition's debt is paid.
Re-enter SNOUT
How happily he lives, how well beloved
Wedded, with Theseus, all in jollity.
Hath after thee sent all thy treasure, with
Thou didst accuse him of incontinency;
A title to Phoebe, to Luna, to the moon.
For yet a many of your horsemen peer
Restores his heart: when valour preys on reason,
And tamed the king, and made the dauphin stoop;
Did scare away, or rather did affright;
These flowers are like the pleasures of the world;
At his house this night.
And set them upright at their dear friends' doors,
Unless I be relieved by prayer,
Be you and I behind an arras then;
Yea and the best person too; and he is a very
So long that nineteen zodiacs have gone round
She vaunted 'mongst her minions t'other day,
I went to her, Master Brook, as you see, like a poor
To the choleric fisting of every rogue
Till they obey the manage. If we suffer,
And Warwick, doing what you gave in charge,
Exit
Hail, you anointed deputies of heaven!
As any cordial comfort. Still, methinks,
When he hath power to crush? Why, had your bodies
I would I had some flowers o' the spring that might
Comes to him, where in gore he lay insteep'd,
That she, that even but now was your best object,
Fool, of thyself speak well: fool, do not flatter.
Measured to look upon you; whom he loves--
All use of quittance.
On what compulsion must I? tell me that.
Discover more at large what cause that was,
Proud majesty a subject, state a peasant.
Enter GREMIO, and LUCENTIO disguised
As you think meet. Most wretched queen!
Exit
And every day do honour to her grave:
Be an arch-villain; believe it, royal prince:
all the chamber smelt him. 'Out with the dog!' says
Come on, brave soldiers: doubt not of the day,
My lords, then, under favour, pardon me,
Your brother and his lover have embraced:
The untimely emptying of the happy throne
For my part, noble lords, I care not which;
Command, I mean, friend.
SCENE VII. Field of battle between the camps.
And in her eye there hath appear'd a fire,
What is the jay more precious than the lark,
Ah, Warwick! Montague hath breathed his last;
An you give him for my sake but one loving kiss.
We'll hear, ourselves, again.
My lord, the roynish clown, at whom so oft
With fearful bravery, thinking by this face
Nor ever will be ruled.
The ills we do, their ills instruct us so.
her die too, and give him a worse! and let worst
Good cheer, Antonio! What, man, courage yet!
What handkerchief?
Safer than mine own two, more dear; I have so;
Both alike:
There is no crossing him in 's humour;
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
notwithstanding that, I know Anne's mind,--that's
Gave wings to my propension and cut off
My lord, that ne'er before invited eyes,
My worthy arch and patron, comes to-night:
Hast not a tongue? is she not here?
By Priam and the general state of Troy:
him once again, and then I will tell him a little
I have drawn her picture with my voice.
Is any woman wrong'd by this lewd fellow,
If by the way they be not fought withal.
As to us, to all the world, that Caius Marcius
For that which now torments me to rehearse:
For his quick hunting, stand the putting on,
Anon, I wot not by what strong escape,
Most piteous to be wild, I have dispatch'd in post
Through all the world bears Rosalind.
Had I been any god of power, I would
What are you reading?
No more, I say.
Yet, as they are, here are they come to meet you.
Come, Jaquenetta, away!
Polecats! there are fairer things than polecats, sure.
Rub him about the temples.
I had been mercenary.
Come hither, herald,--Let the trumpet sound,
So excellent in art, and still so rising,
A most extracting frenzy of mine own
My mercy dried their water-flowing tears;
I would not have given it for a wilderness of monkeys.
Who bates mine honour shall not know my coin.
Our stern alarums changed to merry meetings,
estate, 'twere not amiss to keep our door hatched.
Of our fair cousin Dauphin; for we hear
Enter ROSENCRANTZ and GUILDENSTERN
'Tis like a chime a-mending; with terms unsquared,
dined with him, and told him on't, and come again to
Cloten, thou villain.
No, my good lord.
I'll wait upon your lordship.
Fly further off, my lord, fly further off;
Grew shameless-desperate; open'd, in despite
Plucks off my beard, and blows it in my face?
And those swearings keep as true in soul
Therefore, have done: some grief shows much of love;
And Rice ap Thomas with a valiant crew;
But I will rule both her, the king and realm.
Nay, that I will not.
Go do it instantly.
What, Pindarus! where art thou, Pindarus?
That in a twink she won me to her love.
Who talks within there? ho, open the door!
CYMBELINE
At war 'twixt will and will not.
And Florence is denied before he comes:
To call them woollen vassals, things created
Alexas did revolt; and went to Jewry on
Falstaff's and our meeting, they will at once
Patience is stale, and I am weary of it.
This valley fits the purpose passing well.
Shall Caesar send a lie?
O sacred receptacle of my joys,
[Aside to CARDINAL WOLSEY]
And apprehended here immediately
Hear no more of you. This the Dauphin speaks.
indistinguishable cur, no.
Fall on thy head! Farewell, my lord;
he killed? for indeed I promised to eat all of his killing.
Alack, alack, Edmund, I like not this unnatural
lady. Tell me your mind: I am a messenger.
With blood and sword and fire to win your right;
And by the merit of vile gold, dross, dust,
Pins and poking-sticks of steel,
I did beget her, all the parish knows:
To-morrow then belike shall be the day,
For this design. What course I mean to hold
My wife kill'd too?
My life upon her faith! Honest Iago,
that knew how to love himself. Ere I would say, I
Oft have I seen a timely-parted ghost,
And it pierces and sharpens the stomach. Come,
Priapus, and undo a whole generation. We must
Establish'd then this law; to wit, no female
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
Have blown this coal betwixt my lord and me;
Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both,
A Roman sworder and banditto slave
As truly as he moves.
Welcome, then.
She should have bought her dignities so dear.
For raising this sea-storm?
Ay, marry, is't; crowner's quest law.
He came to me and I deliver'd it.
it fitteth not a prelate so to plead.
To crush our old limbs in ungentle steel:
Whither, my lord? from bought and sold Lord Talbot;
Safest in shame! being fool'd, by foolery thrive!
Find liable to our crown and dignity,
If by this crime he owes the law his life,
A wretched soul, bruised with adversity,
Bestride my threshold. Why, thou Mars! I tell thee,
you be ready for that, you are well cooked.
A knack, a toy, a trick, a baby's cap:
This last old man,
Ay, my good lord.
I will hold friends with you, lady.
I would it were no worse.
Let thy fair wisdom, not thy passion, sway
The fires i' the lowest hell fold-in the people!
Why, how now, ho! from whence ariseth this?
No further halting: satisfy me home
'Tis very strange.
Captain Macmorris, I think, look you, under your
The leading of thine own revenges, take
I stuck my choice upon her, ere my heart
I have not slept one wink.
He'll stay my lord.
And so farewell. Katharina, you may stay;
That only wounds by hearsay.
his urinals about his knave's costard when I have
Though I alone do feel the injury.
croak like a raven; I would bode, I would bode.
The foe is merciless, and will not pity;
Pray God she prove not masculine ere long,
If ever you disturb our streets again,
Come hither, you that would be combatants:
Ay, but, Sir John, methinks they are exceeding poor
On this unworthy scaffold to bring forth
Now, my friendly knave, I thank thee: there's
Expecting in return twenty for one?
blessing: but not as your daughter may conceive.
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
Who, having some advantage on Octavius,
Then must the Jew be merciful.
Crowned in Paris in despite of foes?
A very beadle to a humorous sigh;
Until the goose came out of door,
The praise of it by telling, you must know,
Though it be fit that Cassio have his place,
And almost broke my heart with extreme laughter:
That thou, vouchsafing here to visit me,
O, that a mighty man of such descent,
Good aunt, you wept not for our father's death;
His passion is so ripe, it needs must break.
This will I tell my lady straight: I would not be
Which is the god of my idolatry,
Trumpets sound
Romeo, good night: I'll to my truckle-bed;
Here is the sister of the man condemn'd
Lady Beatrice, have you wept all this while?
Fall down before him, like the mower's swath:
Might there not be a charity in sin
In Pompey's porch: for now, this fearful night,
sister, for, look you, she is as white as a lily and
I prithee, and I'll pay thee bounteously,
Where is the queen?
As to put metal in restrained means
And thereupon he sends you this good news,
I have a mind presages me such thrift,
'Twixt the souls of friend and friend:
Polixenes blameless; Camillo a true subject; Leontes
I never thought him worse.
O, that's well said; the chair!
To bring but five and twenty: to no more
By'r lady, sir, and some dogs will catch well.
Well, madam, and in health.
of him, Emilia, though he be thy husband. How say
There is no power in the tongue of man
In this close walk to satisfy myself,
He cannot buckle his distemper'd cause
now she sings in heaven.
And made Verona's ancient citizens
And though you took his life, as being our foe,
O, why should nature build so foul a den,
To call hers exquisite, in question more:
Let's have some merry ones.
of love. Leander, he would have lived many a fair
Of the adjacent wharfs. The city cast
No other speaker of my living actions,
seventh cause.
Nay, I care not for their names; they owe me
You taught me language; and my profit on't
Come your ways, come your ways; an you draw backward,
Falseness cannot come from thee; for thou look'st
Guarded with grandsires, babies and old women,
Thy brother being carelessly encamp'd,
sir!' I see things may serve long, but not serve ever.
Alas, how love can trifle with itself!
Exit
He's coming, madam; I hear him.
The word is 'mildly.' Pray you, let us go:
devil? When the blood is made dull with the act of
Discharge my followers: let them hence away,
And soon I'll rid you from the fear of them.
'Tis not so dear, yet 'tis a life; you coin'd it:
Think you so?
And let thy tongue be equal with thy heart.
How dare the plants look up to heaven, from whence
him with any appearance of fear, lest he, by showing
O, sir!
Yes, good Griffith;
And I will fill them with prophetic tears.
I do beseech you.
Mine arms about that body, where against
Famous in Caesar's praises, no whit less
Ancient, conduct them: you best know the place.
Nor great Alcides, nor the god of war,
Thou shalt not die: die for adultery! No:
Striving to better, oft we mar what's well.
Quarter'd the world, and o'er green Neptune's back
For you have seen him open't. Read o'er this;
My master, not myself, lacks recompense.
And so had mine.
let it be concealed awhile.
You make a leg, and Bolingbroke says ay.
Since I nor wax nor honey can bring home,
That I do brag thus! This your air of France
If thou remember'st not the slightest folly
turn the sun to ice with fanning in his face with a
He shows his reason for that: to have a dispatch of
pregnant and unforced position--who stands so
Do not draw back your hand; I'll take no more;
Troubled, confronted thus; and, for the extent
The truth you speak doth lack some gentleness
When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept:
To make an act of tragic violence:
Moved with compassion of my country's wreck,
Now the condition.
And say if I shall see you soon at night.
Here is no use for gold.
Should with your body.
Then speak again; not all thy former tale,
Lose our drum! well.
Take this along; I writ it for thy sake
And--how we know not--all clapp'd under hatches;
If he will take it, so; if not, adieu;
No, by mine honour, but I was bid to come for you.
By no means what?
I lose myself: better I were not yours
Persuade him that he hath been lunatic;
As that vast shore wash'd with the farthest sea,
I cannot delve him to the root: his father
Patron of virtue, Rome's best champion,
To fall before the lion than the wolf!
I humbly thank you, sir: a truth's a truth, the
Why, I said nothing.
And ditches grave you all!
Here comes the Duke of York.
I say, sing.
Into a manly stride, and speak of frays
Thou wouldst be fee'd, I see, to make me sport:
their limbs whole and hack our English.
And I had rather glib myself than they
And question this most bloody piece of work,
'Tis most true:
As rushing out of doors, to be resolved
Antonio, my father, is deceased;
A mother less? or granted less, Aufidius?
Cheerly, my lord	how fares your grace?
And he, long traded in it, makes it seem
Not out of doors!
There's one thing wanting, which I doubt not but
Or to her death, according to our law
Hath sometime loved! I take thy hand, this hand,
Enter CORNWALL, REGAN, GONERIL, EDMUND, and Servants
That shall attend his love.
If I may counsel you, some day or two
So you walk softly and look sweetly and say nothing,
We shall proceed with Angelo.
Well worth a poor man's taking: fairies and gods
On, Myrmidons, and cry you all amain,
Than he that dies and lives by bloody drops?
To plead for love deserves more fee than hate.
Nay, that were a punishment too good for them, if
To guard a title that was rich before,
Fie, brother, fie! teach her not thus to lay
York, I commend this kind submission:
O, do not learn her wrath; she taught it thee;
Shouldst thou but hear I were licentious
Such Brooks are welcome to me, that o'erflow such
But, they do square, that all their elves for fear
Ay, so, God be wi' ye;
Beside, I fear me, if thy thoughts were sifted,
rough, and will not be roughly used.
A good lenten answer: I can tell thee where that
Enter a Messenger
Robs the vast sea: the moon's an arrant thief,
knave it is: I hope your majesty is pear me
Rise, Titus, rise; my empress hath prevail'd.
Daughter to Charles the foresaid duke of Lorraine:
Heave him away upon your winged thoughts
That Angelo's forsworn; is it not strange?
you no song, forester, for this purpose?
Madam, now shall ye see
thousand of these letters, writ with blank space for
Exeunt
An armour all of gold; it was a king's.
Her delicate cheek: it seem'd she was a queen
Your will?
I would have said it; you say well. Here comes the king.
So desperate thieves, all hopeless of their lives,
No remedy.
Why, for my king: tush, that's a wooden thing!
When stubbornly he did repugn the truth
And so farewell, and fair be all thy hopes
None but for some and yet all different.
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK,  NORTHUMBERLAND, LORD ROSS, HENRY PERCY, LORD WILLOUGHBY, with BUSHY and GREEN, prisoners
Nor none so bad, but it may well be told.
Such as he hath observed in noble ladies
To what, my love, shall I compare thine eyne?
Nay, there is some comfort in the news, some
I will appeach the villain.
love hath made thee a tame snake, and say this to
Enter an English Herald
'Tis as impossible that he's undrown'd
times seven years; and since I could distinguish
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments
We did, so please your highness.
The GHOST OF BANQUO enters, and sits in MACBETH's place
But metal, Marcus, steel to the very back,
Alack, the night comes on, and the bleak winds
But that he's well and will be shortly here.
When you are waspish.
With hey, ho,  and c.
Riding, her fortunes brought the maid aboard us,
So speedily can venge! But, O poor Gloucester!
Thou'rt tired, then, in a word, I also am
Come, my old son: I pray God make thee new.
The time is fair again.
Margaret my name, and daughter to a king,
By the blood we have shed together, by the vows
Good sir, speak it to us.
The reasons of our state I cannot yield,
godheads to borrow of men, men would forsake the
No.
So many greedy looks of young and old
as many of your players do, I had as lief the
Wash'd me from shore to shore, and left me breath
But other of your insolent retinue
If lusty love should go in quest of beauty,
Therefore, good cousin, let not Harry know,
Why dost thou look so sadly on my son?
He was a man, take him for all in all,
When I'll depose I had him in mine arms
Write me a prologue; and let the prologue seem to
But hast thou done thy errand to Baptista?
do solicit you in that kind, you know your answer.
Wouldst thou have laugh'd had I come coffin'd home,
Who!
For, O, love's bow
cry you mercy: I thought your honour had already been
I will believe you by the syllable
I embrace it.
And wheresoe'er he is, he's surely dead.
Rebellion in this land shall lose his sway,
mistress fallen out.
I hate him for he is a Christian,
And you all know, security
Who willed you? or whose will stands but mine?
mightst behold the great image of authority: a
[Within]  Can you tell for whose sake?
Let her who would be rid of him devise
You laying these slight sullies on my son,
There, take it; and much thanks for my good cheer.
Even as your horse bears your praises; who would
Let's have your company, or, if you please,
O the heavens!
And, lest thou shouldst detect him, cut thy tongue.
Loaden with honour. Say my request's unjust,
liquor. Ah, ha! Mistress Ford and Mistress Page
This morning come before us; where, I know,
A shout within
Still in this fashion, colour, ornament,
Help Marcius, help,
And sent me over by Berkeley, to discover
Exeunt OTHELLO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
Venice, thou wilt quake for this shortly.
Which rather threatenest than dost promise aught,
You lie, ye rogue; 'tis going to the king's tavern.
No; I would tell what 'twere to be a judge,
Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Here none but soldiers and Rome's servitors
praiseworthy: and now tell me, how doth your cousin?
beginning.
Enter Soldier
Ah, no, no, no, it is mine only son!
To live a barren sister all your life,
Come on, then; horse and chariots let us have,
would be argument for a week, laughter for a month
Run to my study. By and by! God's will,
Lo, now I now see the issue of your peace.
a more penitent trade than your bawd; he doth
What's the newest grief?
A plague upon you, murderers, traitors all!
This is a poor epitome of yours,
Of forfeiture, of justice and his bond.
We are amazed; and thus long have we stood
Away, I say! stay'st thou to vex me here?
What, shall we stab him as he sleeps?
Therefore thou sleep'st so sound.
Took up a beggar's issue at my gates,
Confess'd the vile encounters they have had
That 'scuse serves many men to save their gifts.
Of that true hand that fought Rome's quarrel out,
What's o'clock, think you?
He hath against himself.
Madam, good night; I humbly thank your ladyship.
When I do see the very book indeed
are almost set in thy head.
You brace of warlike brothers, welcome hither.
Goblin, lead them up and down.
Let it stamp wrinkles in her brow of youth;
Not like to me, or any of my kin,
I heard thee say, and vauntingly thou spakest it
Now, lords, my choler being over-blown
Of all that may concern thy love-affairs.
I'll give thee armour to keep off that word:
As more at large your grace shall understand.
Commend me to my brother: soon at night
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once!
If she should break it now!
How much we do o'er-count thee.
By faith and honour,
How farest thou, mirror of all martial men?
I am come to survey the Tower this day:
Then would to God that I had never seen't!
of all compass.
It is great sin to swear unto a sin,
To prison with her! Shall we thus permit
Do you bite your thumb at us, sir?
I see it in
He is with Caesar.
And mothers that lack sons.
You give him then the advantage.
You have not sought it! how comes it, then?
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
For I will buz abroad such prophecies
Exeunt
you are o' the commission,
Well, sirs, I am almost out at heels.
Whence honour but of danger wins a scar,
Then give me leave to read philosophy,
We must not. A noble prisoner!
Kind keepers of my weak decaying age,
I'll seem the fool I am not; Antony
For valiant doings in their country's cause?
horses ran away, how her bridle was burst, how I
me, I could find in my heart to stay here still and
How chance the king comes with so small a train?
I'll make one too.
This by Calpurnia's dream is signified.
the poop, but 'tis in the nose of thee; thou art the
His looks I fear, and his intents I doubt.
Adoption strives with nature and choice breeds
Hence will I to my ghostly father's cell,
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
As sure, my liege, as I do see your grace.
Find cause in Caesar.
Fear not, my lord, your servant shall do so.
Exeunt YORK, EDWARD, EDMUND, GEORGE, RICHARD,  WARWICK, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, their Soldiers, and Attendants
Of your profession? Speak, what trade art thou?
But, sirs, be sudden in the execution,
Well thought upon; I have it here about me.
To love my father all.
With the memorials and the things of fame
That the land Salique is in Germany,
Juliet, on Thursday early will I rouse ye:
Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO
The yearly course that brings this day about
As notes whose faculties inclusive were
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK and Lords
Now have I paid my vow unto his soul;
Then, in a friend, it is cold modesty.
thing, but you shall let it dwell darkly with you.
The ambition in my love thus plagues itself:
SCENE II. Sandal Castle.
And very well appointed, as I thought,
The jeweller that owes the ring is sent for,
Thou art no friend to God or to the king:
Do the wise think them other? is not l'envoy a salve?
The scepter'd office of your ancestors,
An your waist, mistress, were as slender as my wit,
Frown on, you heavens, effect your rage with speed!
Great rivals in our youngest daughter's love,
Till now some nine moons wasted, they have used
Which thou wilt propagate, to have it prest
To you that choked it. Let be call'd before us
Ah, Gloucester, hide thee from their hateful looks,
from his judge, but most willingly humbles himself
Nay, get thee gone.
Thou canst not strike it thus to make it still.
From famous Edmund Langley, Duke of York,
An oath is of no moment, being not took
Though he be grown so desperate to be honest,
poor three, and they can do no more than they can
That then I lost for thee, now grant me justice.
To lose itself in a fog, where being three parts
Would seem but modest: therefore, I beseech you
And such a piece of service will you do,
The tune of Imogen!
Or that we would, against the form of law,
And the rude son should strike his father dead:
And you my good lords, both have well proceeded,
And that's a good root.
Italian fiend! Ay me, most credulous fool,
And therefore do we what we are commanded.
Being urged at a time unseasonable.
GHOST OF BANQUO vanishes
[To KING RICHARD III]
I were best to leave him, for he will not hear.
By fair or foul means we must enter in,
The civil citizens kneading up the honey,
ANTIPHOLUS
We'll have him. Sirs, a word.
Nay, but I know 'tis so: I saw him arrested, saw
Exit
Even till we make the main and the aerial blue
Of her awaking, here untimely lay
Shall have the fame. I have heard that Julius Caesar
gentleman or other shall 'scape a predestinate
That, methinks, is strange.
I cleft his beaver with a downright blow:
Might in thy palace perish Margaret.
Affection makes him false; he speaks not true:
What prince is that?
These strong Egyptian fetters I must break,
And here again; that I may rest assured
Prince John is this morning secretly stolen away;
Come, Clarence, come; thou wilt, if Warwick call.
And now in plainness do confess to thee,
Kisses her
a devil, and no monster: I will leave him; I have no
prison; and there's Madam Juliet.
I am not guilty of Lysander's blood;
Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither.
Which never labour'd in their minds till now,
Recoil upon me: in himself too mighty,
open. I will be proud, I will read politic authors,
For oaths are straws, men's faiths are wafer-cakes,
Died he not in his bed? where should he die?
Hath faulty wander'd and irregular,
As if I had never been such.
In angel whiteness beat away those blushes;
Exeunt MISTRESS PAGE and ANNE PAGE
Come hither, Francis.
armadoes of caracks to be ballast at her nose.
God be wi' you, princes all; I'll to my charge:
[Within]  What a coil is there, Dromio? who are those
Become the touches of sweet harmony.
The Greeks upon advice did bury Ajax
My lord desires you presently: my news
Where is Nan now and her troop of fairies, and the
Tell him I'll send Duke Edmund to the Tower;
Than with your weapons.
I am so much a fool, should I stay longer,
And if thou vanquishest, thy words are true;
A second time I kill my husband dead,
The blood is hot that must be cool'd for this:
That weigh their pains in sense and do suppose
time shall serve, there shall be smiles; but that
Who, after great Hostilius, here was king;
And, being men, bearing the will of Caesar,
Or, with the rest, where is your darling Rutland?
To be your servant.
had been in his belly, I would have kept such a
As in a title-page, your worth in arms,
Enter Messenger
Exit
Why then, a ladder quaintly made of cords,
The thunder-like percussion of thy sounds,
God ye good even, William.
There is not yet so ugly a fiend of hell
So that from point to point now have you heard
Not step o'er the bounds of modesty.
sent to find those persons whose names are here
I will with you, if you be so contented,
That o'er the files and musters of the war
Marry, this is miching mallecho; it means mischief.
O, let me make the period to my curse!
By what it fed on: and yet, within a month--
With horns, as was Actaeon's; and the hounds
If 'twill not serve,'tis not so base as you;
Anon, anon, sir.
Peace, Trojan; lay thy finger on thy lips!
But I can give the loser leave to chide.
established against the rich, and provide more
Come hither, Mistress Ford; Mistress Ford the honest
What's this? what's this?
Enter SIR HUGH EVANS and SIMPLE
Thee never, nor thy traitorous haughty sons,
Devour up my discourse: which I observing,
Thus thrust disorderly into my hands,
To plague the inventor: this even-handed justice
If you advise it.
Then must my earth with her continual tears
Say to me,
what metal this counterfeit lump of ore will be
I will put it to them: but vir sapit qui pauca
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
All may be well.
Let me stand here till thou remember it.
Wrest once the law to your authority:
To deal with grief alone.
Your sued-for tongues?
Ay, with all my heart; and thou art worthy of it.
To take them in protection?
but of my shedding.
We shall o'erturn it topsy-turvy down.
Or like a whale?
Exeunt DOGBERRY and VERGES
love, as an old man loves money, with no stomach.
Enter MACBETH, Doctor, and Attendants
Thrust in between the paction of these kingdoms,
And, but for Owen Glendower, had been king,
I stand dishonour'd, that have gone about
What with a torch! muffle me, night, awhile.
Exit
Know the whole world, he is as valiant.
I think it be thine, indeed; for thou liest in't.
I say again, if Lewis do win the day,
Exit
To his dog-hearted daughters, these things sting
Let him not seek 't of us: by day and night,
So, so, my lord.
any thing, and call it purchase. Bardolph stole a
And be thy wife--if any be so mad--
Good Corporal Nym, show thy valour, and put up your sword.
That fed him with his prophecies?
Gods and goddesses,
I thank you, sir.
Can no man tell me of my unthrifty son?
O noble English. that could entertain
How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
For instant remedy: be then desired
Into this gaping hollow of the earth?
With hasty Germans and blunt Hollanders,
So sharp are hunger's teeth, that man and wife
If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.
Give me thy hand, Kate: I will unto Venice,
Of all these ears,--for where I am robb'd and bound,
They do retire.
Suggestions are to other as to me;
Want mercy, if I do not join with him:
S. Withold footed thrice the old;
one of his men was with the Lord Lucullus to borrow
Gifts of rich value. Yet I have not seen
[Aside]  Thy father, Pompey, would ne'er have
Ay, brother, to our grief, as it is yours:
As matching to his youth and vanity,
By my soul, a swain! a most simple clown!
here: pray you, is he married to Cleopatra?
Provost, how came it Claudio was beheaded
Promise me life, and I'll confess the truth.
SCENE VI. Antium. A public place.
And in Apollos name, his oracle.
Arrested him at York, and brought him forward,
Comets, importing change of times and states,
To darkness fleet souls that fly backwards. Stand;
point. Four rogues in buckram let drive at me--
Make poor men's cattle break their necks;
With triumphs, mirth and rare solemnity.
kind of behavior, as they say: for the gentlewoman
me, was yet of many accounted beautiful: but,
By her, that else will take the thing she begs,
For aye to be in shady cloister mew'd,
Therefore I will not disdain.
And will that thou henceforth attend on us.
By them shall make a fuller number up,
Cleanse the foul body of the infected world,
Thereby to see the minutes how they run,
The king's a beggar, now the play is done:
Reads
A law-breaker, a villain: yield thee, thief.
not mark that?
O my lord,
Brief, I recover'd him, bound up his wound;
Re-enter LE BEAU
But now he's gone, and my idolatrous fancy
Are they inform'd of this? My breath and blood!
So that, dear lords, if I be left behind,
Away! though parting be a fretful corrosive,
Of dear import, and the neglecting it
The face of an old Roman coin, scarce seen.
Making and marring fortunes. You did know
Enter GARDINER, Bishop of Winchester, a Page with a torch before him, met by LOVELL
BISHOP
He is their god: he leads them like a thing
Pardon me, sir, the boldness is mine own,
Where fathom-line could never touch the ground,
redemption for this.
Do so: and let no man abide this deed,
To reap the harvest of perpetual peace
Has been told so; and he says, he'll stand at your
And hardly keeps his men from mutiny,
His noble friends and fellows, whom to leave
After the prompter, for our entrance:
My mind exceeds the compass of her wheel.
And for the contents' sake are sorry for our pain.
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
God's my life, where's the sexton? let him write
one puritan amongst them, and he sings psalms to
O'er your content these strong necessities;
The lion moved with pity did endure
For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night.
Enter the Ghost of HASTINGS
Enter DUKE ORSINO, CURIO, and other Lords; Musicians attending
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Achilles' tent.
Of his true titles to some certain dukedoms
Who thrives and who declines; side factions
My lord, prepare; the king comes on apace.
Good Aaron, wilt thou help to chop it off?
The knave counterfeits well; a good knave.
That Henry, sole possessor of my love,
O Desdemona! Desdemona! dead!
Hear you, Patroclus:
Tell him, toward Swinstead, to the abbey there.
Which else runs tickling up and down the veins,
Enter KING LEAR, Fool, and Gentleman
part, it was Greek to me. I could tell you more
Delivers in such apt and gracious words
Here stood he in the dark, his sharp sword out,
No villanous bounty yet hath pass'd my heart;
That dotes on Cassio; as 'tis the strumpet's plague
Than any is in hell.
Give you all greetings that a king, at friend,
Whither is he going?
Where the Norweyan banners flout the sky
clown, thou perishest; or, to thy better
Regan, I think you are; I know what reason
And dupp'd the chamber-door;
If you think so, then stay at home and go not.
Importune him for my moneys; be not ceased
Ay, millstones; as be lesson'd us to weep.
I'll tell thee how Beatrice praised thy wit the
Yes, one, and in this manner. He was to imagine me
O, 'tis an accident that heaven provides!
But what a fool am I to chat with you,
cabins: you do assist the storm.
I can keep honest counsel, ride, run, mar a curious
Of smooth civility: yet am I inland bred
Sir, I will use
And cited up a thousand fearful times,
the lover's, which is all these: but it is a
me asleep, for I am very heavy?
To him and to his heirs; namely, the crown
My words disbench'd you not.
You must perforce accomplish as you may.
bloody kind,
praise him.
And as our vineyards, fallows, meads and hedges,
Which he to seek of me again, perforce,
I'll whisper with the general, and know his pleasure.
Is fair and honest, and in his mistres s' name
I pray you, do.
Are ye so hot, sir? yet, Pucelle, hold thy peace;
Prepare there,
May this be so?
For every honour sitting on his helm,
And not have it, 'twere a paper lost,
The purest treasure mortal times afford
Almost in Christendom: shortly, I believe,
'Tis a brave army,
us that are squires of the night's body be called
Ay, my liege, so please you give us leave.
in the world, if a' could get her good-will.
Either for her stay or going: the affair cries haste,
All men, I hope, live so.
And with ridiculous and awkward action,
I had as lief have my mistress a jade.
For thou thyself hast been a libertine,
gifts of nature.
Myself thus alter'd with 't.
Come, quench your blushes and present yourself
But shall I live in hope?
Mistress, both man and master is possess'd;
His neck will come to your waist,--a cord, sir.
Till I find more than will or words to do it,
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse
Will she go now to bed?
What holier than, for royalty's repair,
You fight in justice: then, in God's name, lords,
If Sir John Fastolfe had not play'd the coward:
With rival-hating envy, set on you
The queen, the courtiers: who is this they follow?
O monstrous fault, to harbour such a thought!
Almost impregnable, his old ears deaf,
captain-general of the Grecian army, Agamemnon,
My sisterly remorse confutes mine honour,
The provost, he shall bear them, whose contents
To your remembrances: but you have found,
My noble uncle, do you know the cause?
In what enormity is Marcius poor in, that you two
Why, then is my pump well flowered.
and Signior Benedick, my dear friend Leonato hath
These tidings will well comfort Cassius.
But yet be wary in thy studious care.
By the simplicity of Venus' doves,
It is no matter, his name's Cinna; pluck but his
Forgets the shows of love to other men.
The basin that receives your guilty blood.
Shall show more goodly and attract more eyes
But curb it, spite of seeing. O, my lord,
Come hither: ah, you precious pander! Villain,
if you like her, so; if not, I have lost my earnest.
SCENE III. Plain between the camps.
Then shall we have a match. I have letters sent me
With these weak women's fears: a noble spirit,
Upon her nuptial vow, her loyalty,
Nay, look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret;
Why should I, mother? Poor birds they are not set for.
With all his covent, honourably received him;
You have misled a prince, a royal king,
For then thou canst not pass to Mantua;
done. Marry, I would not do such a thing for a
That ever turn'd their--backs--to mortal views!
He doth object I am too great of birth--,
But, hark thee; I will go to her alone:
But, stay; I smell a man of middle-earth.
Why? that you are my daughter?
sleep in thy sheath, I beseech God on my knees thou
ANTIPHOLUS
They have been absent: 'tis good speed; foretells
My good lords both, with all the heed I may.
Sing willow, willow, willow;
Why and wherein Caesar was dangerous.
What was the second noise for?
Here; swear then how thou escapedst.
Peter!
that is an old man and no honester than I.
9. The old Duchess of Norfolk, in a coronal of
Some honest Christian trust me with a gage
well enough too? what barm can your bisson
If I discover'd not which way she was gone,
Pardon me, princely Henry, and the rest
You pity not the state, nor the remembrance
Speak that which is not.
Would not have touch'd, would not have stain'd with blood:
That he shall soon keep Tybalt company:
Thou sober-suited matron, all in black,
Fair is foul, and foul is fair:
But yet they could have wish'd--they know not--
Nor men nor money hath he to make war.
To hear? or forbear laughing?
Prithee, no more prattling; go. I'll hold. This is
Call Burgundy. Cornwall and Albany,
He who shall speak for her is afar off guilty
I cannot, by the progress of the stars,
All this I know; and to the marriage
Of godlike amity; which appears most strongly
And service to his majesty and you,
be this morning executed, and his head born to Angelo.
For certain drops of salt, your city Rome,
Thou must not take my former sharpness ill:
I am surprised with an uncouth fear;
To re-salute his country with his tears,
Seek him, bid him come hither: tell him I have
And with your best endeavour have stirr'd up
Between the promise of his greener days
of all our cavaliers, and make our swearers priests.
Shall chide your trespass and return your mock
So heavy as thou shalt not shake them off,
Enter SNUG
He shall to Parthia. Be it art or hap,
But be as Ajax.
To kiss the ground before young Malcolm's feet,
The tyrant's people on both sides do fight;
Of prey that keep upon't.
Strikes him down
The Gentlemen and the two Sailors descend, and go on board the barge
That's somewhat madly spoken.
The game was ne'er so fair, and I am done.
the blow; unless it swell past hiding, and then it's
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Or with their blood stain this discolour'd shore.
and hit that woman; who cried out 'Clubs!' when I
Yet, spaniel-like, the more she spurns my love,
news on the Rialto? Who is he comes here?
More light and light; more dark and dark our woes!
And, thus unbraced, Casca, as you see,
Why, I say nothing.
Nor how to study for the people's welfare,
He is but one: you and my brother search
ANTIPHOLUS
For them! I cannot do it to the gods;
Before I have shook off the regal thoughts
And thy ambition, Gloucester.
Exeunt
Were in his time thought false, and Sinon's weeping
'tis not convenient you should be cozened. Fare you well.
Remember what I have said.
To Luciana
And half our sailors swallow'd in the flood?
that I think you are in love: nay, by'r lady, I am
By whom, AEneas?
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
Let me still take away the harms I fear,
But fall, unshaken, when they mellow be.
How fondly dost thou spur a forward horse!
With robbers' hands my hospitable favours
In so unseeming to confess receipt
dog.
Further to boast were neither true nor modest,
Envy and crooked malice nourishment
Great business must be wrought ere noon:
plain highway of talk, that the good Antonio, the
No, I'll nor sell nor give him: lend you him I will
Mother, good night. Indeed this counsellor
Enter CLOTEN and two Lords
You may guess quickly what.
Fools had ne'er less wit in a year;
His mother was a witch, and one so strong
Drum and colours. Enter MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS, LENNOX, and Soldiers
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
I am a villain: yet I lie. I am not.
New woo my queen, recall the good Camillo,
Of vile confederates. Along with them
What's your will?
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Thou shouldst not have been old till thou hadst
So many blows upon this face of mine,
you swinged me for my love, which makes me the
His tedious measures with the unbated fire
Have made the ground my bed. I should be sick,
Where I arrive, and my approach be shunn'd,
gravelled for lack of matter, you might take
Draw near, ye people.
I guess their tenor.
To take their rooms, ere I can place myself:
that? your majesty and we that have free souls, it
And with the other fling it at thy face,
Exit
swear he loves me.
Good Margaret, run thee to the parlor;
[Aside]  Plantagenet, I see, must hold his tongue,
For an abuser of the world, a practiser
mum, you are he: graces will appear, and there's an
You were of our determination!
Sing, and dance it trippingly.
What?
Which I'll lay down.
Is all the grace I beg.
All this is comfort; wherefore weep I then?
I hope so, sir; for I have about me many parcels of charge.
ACT V
filthy officer he is in those suggestions for the
Thou perjured, and thou simular man of virtue
Fie, how impatience loureth in your face!
Though not his prime consent, he did not flow
Turn melancholy forth to funerals;
thee. Come, neighbour Mugs, we'll call up the
That you should think, we come not to offend,
No sneaping winds at home, to make us say
and will speak more in a minute than he will stand
Look, how he makes to Caesar; mark him.
I stood not in the smile of heaven; who had
Why, this is very midsummer madness.
How if the nurse be asleep and will not hear us?
A chough of as deep chat. O, that you bore
He did it with a serious mind; a heed
And thinks he that the chirping of a wren,
For these known evils, but to give me leave,
We with our travels will endeavour us.
Must he needs trouble me in 't,--hum!--'bove
When on my three-foot stool I sit and tell
That cannot be:
I must die much your debtor.
No, lord ambassador, I'll rather keep
But stir not you till you have well determined
nunnery, go.
In conclusion, I stand affected to her.
Our purposed hunting shall be set aside.
That it but mocks reproof.
But where is he?
Before the tag return? whose rage doth rend
What?
My Lord Fitzwater, I do remember well
Do, good friend.
When were you wont to use my sister thus?
Begin your suits anew, and sue to him.
where is Anne Page; by gar, he deceive me too.
More richer than my tongue.
Is like that mirth fate turns to sudden sadness.
I must needs say you have a little fault:
Either your unparagoned mistress is dead, or she's
and it shall be said so again while Stephano
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Put into parts, doth keep in one consent,
In faith, he is a worthy gentleman,
which they trick up with new-tuned oaths: and what
To give or to forgive; but when we have stuff'd
Gentlemen,
On: those that think it is unlawful business
Arm, wenches, arm! encounters mounted are
Let York be regent; I will yield to him.
I was advertised their great general slept,
Or say, sweet love, what thou desirest to eat.
That he which is was wish'd until he were;
My lord, there are certain nobles of the senate
Did in your name receive it: pardon the
Say one of your watches.
talk you of young Master Launcelot?
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, attended
But spoke the harm that is by others done?
O dear Phebe,
his day. What need I be so forward with him that
Rich garments, linens, stuffs and necessaries,
Nay, I will do as my cousin Shallow says: I pray
And dogged York, that reaches at the moon,
I came yonder at Eton to marry Mistress Anne Page,
Dismay not, princes, at this accident,
Give you good night.
Some report a sea-maid spawned him; some, that he
hazard thy life for thy dinner: wert thou the
Re-enter ARIEL, driving in CALIBAN, STEPHANO and TRINCULO, in their stolen apparel
After well enter'd soldiers, to return
And then I will her charmed eye release
Nay, if I turn mine eyes upon myself,
As, I confess, it is my nature's plague
The knights and gentlemen to come with thee:
I can o'ersway him; for he loves to hear
Meet me i' the morning: thither he
That place them on the truth of girls and boys.
Exeunt BERTRAM and LAFEU
It is petter that friends is the sword, and end it:
That comes to hazard for my worthless self.
That kings should let their ears hear their
Look, where he comes.
The badges of his grief and patience,
Brother, this is Sir John Montgomery,
If it appear not plain and prove untrue,
Lend me an arm; the rest have worn me out
And chides with thinking.
O, the fierce wretchedness that glory brings us!
There's two or three of us have seen strange sights.
Will not you go?
You may, then, spare that time.
And put on sullen black incontinent:
To wage against the enmity o' the air;
Unto Antonio's house: away! make haste.
I'll prove the lie thou speak'st.
and make a vassal of him.
I know you are the Muskos' regiment:
This way will I disrobe the images,
Believe it.
That, being daily swallow'd by men's eyes,
Embarquements all of fury, shall lift up
Therein illustrated: the honour of it
The malice towards you to forgive you: live,
O' the rolls, and the king's secretary; further, sir,
What then?
To painful labour both by sea and land,
O all you host of heaven! O earth! what else?
Good masters, harm me not:
Unless thou bring'st them with thee.
And hath so humbled me, as, I confess,
Tell her thou madest away her uncle Clarence,
That shall reverberate all as loud as thine;
I thank your lordship, you have got me one.
Into the tumbling billows of the main.
I shall have my eight shillings I won of you at betting?
The treacherous manner of his mournful death
With sharp constraint of hunger; better 'twere
You less know how to value her desert
And you, my lords, remember where we are,
Join'd in commission with him; but either
and a good jest for ever.
Injurious world! most damned Angelo!
Renew, renew! The fierce Polydamas
I am unworthy to be Henry's wife.
Mine ear, I thank it, brought me to thy sound
Say'st thou me so? is that a ton of moys?
Then take my king's defiance from my mouth,
Look that you love your wife; her worth worth yours.
Why stand we like soft-hearted women here,
Why, so didst thou: come they of noble family?
Women are soft, mild, pitiful and flexible;
They set upon BANQUO
Which may, if fortune please, both breed thee, pretty,
Thou showest the naked pathway to thy life,
Now spurs the lated traveller apace
A gentleman of noble parentage,
A' can carve too, and lisp: why, this is he
How now, Meg!
and plenteous wit and invention:--
Though ink be made of gall.
But, as I say, such as become a soldier,
If it be so, sir, that you are the man
Sits in a foggy cloud, and stays for me.
That is Antonio, the duke's eldest son;
Peto; so did you, Bardolph: you are lions too, you
Without our ears: thou art not what thou seem'st.
Thou hast so wrong'd mine innocent child and me
Being opposites of such repairing nature.
The gentle Thetis, and anon behold
Now tell me how long you would have her after you
Yet, poor old heart, he holp the heavens to rain.
together: if our father carry authority with
Sennet. Enter KING LEAR, CORNWALL, ALBANY, GONERIL, REGAN, CORDELIA, and Attendants
I will, captain: farewell.
And knowing what I am, I know what she shall be.
Let me end the story:
As therein are set down.
instrument of honour again into his native quarter,
Wert thou not brother to great Edward's son,
Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
Enter CYMBELINE and Lords
My good friends, I'll leave you till night: you are
If any in Vienna be of worth
A plague upon them! wherefore should I curse them?
I wish I had a cause to seek him there,
I have heard!
could not have owed her a more rooted love.
As is appointed us, at Shrewsbury.
Lest, being seen, thy brother, tender George,
A Grecian and his sword, if he do set
Both our inventions meet and jump in one.
Are stol'n away and fled; which puts upon them
Thou shalt have charge and sovereign trust herein.
Where is Achilles?
That seeks to overthrow religion,
extremity of both ends: when thou wast in thy gilt
What may the king's whole battle reach unto?
another, to make me frankly despise myself.
deserve at my hand; but we must do good against evil.
Then pardon him, sweet father, for my sake.
In quest of them, unhappy, lose myself.
Doors, that were ne'er acquainted with their wards
Should patch a wall to expel the winter flaw!
ye, or ise try whether your costard or my ballow be
You are so empty of them. Should not our father
And I choose Clarence only for protector.
compulsion! If reasons were as plentiful as
Why, how now? ho, awake! Why are you drawn?
Who waits there? Sure, you know me?
I have cried her almost to the number of her hairs;
What, Sir John Falstaff! Are these your letters, knight?
Post on the lame feet of my rhyme;
indiscreet an officer. Drunk? and speak parrot?
dully by us. I will in the interim undertake one of
Exit
And take you by the hand; but then you'll think--
He pours it out; Plutus, the god of gold,
Of her contaminated carrion weight,
prophetically proud of an heroical cudgelling that he
[Within]  What needs all that, and a pair of stocks in the town?
[Aside to DIOMEDES]  O, this is well; he rubs the
And greedily devour the treacherous bait:
Ford differs! To thy great comfort in this mystery
An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live;
I'll muster up my friends, and meet your grace
By Signior Angelo.
Words without thoughts never to heaven go.
For ever
ACT I
Enter the two Murderers
Your scutcheons and your signs of conquest, shall
They fell together all, as by consent;
Whether I live or die, be you the sons
Speak, Queen of Goths, dost thou applaud my choice?
Hear'st thou the news abroad, who are arrived?
And, being anger'd, puffs away from thence,
No matter where; of comfort no man speak:
have often noted in thy company, but I know not his name.
But, as I think, it was by the cardinal;
We have not made good preparation.
O, woe the day!
I hold my duty, as I hold my soul,
Be season'd with such viands? You will answer
I should repent the evils I have done:
Hath seen a grievous wreck and sufferance
flourishes, and a poor maid is undone.
[Reads]  'He is one of the noblest note, to whose
All's not offence that indiscretion finds
Buckingham, I prithee, pardon me,
[Aside]  What I do next, shall be to tell the king
swear by that that is not, you are not forsworn: no
He, like a puling cuckold, would drink up
Of thine affairs, as well as thou of mine?
Was not our recompense, resting well assured
on! stir them on!
And that engenders thunder in his breast
As she is stubborn-chaste against all suit.
She was in love, and he she loved proved mad
Shall e'er have power upon thee.' Then fly,
'tis; here's my mother's breath up and down. Now
Is't even so?
Meets with Lord Harry: and, I fear, Sir Michael,
Go take her hence, and marry her instantly.
Where death's approach is seen so terrible!
A pattern, precedent, and lively warrant,
[Coming forward]  Why, how now, lords!
You gave me this: but take it, sir, again.
Where I may read who pass'd that passing fair?
All is whole;
Thorough the streets of Rome?
The pretty and sweet manner of it forced
Go thou with me, and let me counsel thee.
'Tis done.
Who knows if one of her women, being corrupted,
Enter SICINIUS and BRUTUS
A grave? O no! a lantern, slaughter'd youth,
Pardon me, pardon me.
On whom foul death hath made this slaughter;
Of many weary miles you have o'ergone,
To intercept this inconvenience,
Not a word with him but a jest.
Let specialties be therefore drawn between us,
see thee so put down?
husband had him of. What do you call your knight's
The sudden breach on't.
Than for to think that I would sink it here.
Dost thou know her?
continent of what part a gentleman would see.
with cheer.
of any thing he sees there, let thine eye be thy
m'en vais a la cour--la grande affaire.
Having bound up the threatening twigs of birch,
my trot, dere is no duke dat the court is know to
Than is the coal of fire upon the ice,
And be thou he.
Ay, sir, and very learned.
Soft infancy, that nothing canst but cry,
MARCUS and the Sons of TITUS kneel
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
That wails her absence?
And lack of temper'd judgment afterward.
But to be commanded
Well, and what of him?
A most dear husband. Now, I do love her too;
think you set nothing by a bloody coxcomb.
And fight maliciously: for when mine hours
She comes to do you good.
That, upon knowledge of my parentage,
Why art thou patient, man? thou shouldst be mad;
Has had most favourable and happy speed:
Lucilius' Servant	Put in now, Titus.
assure ye, it was a buck of the first head.
SCENE V. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
With the next benefit o' the wind.
further afoot, I shall break my wind. Well, I doubt
With scoffs and scorns and contumelious taunts.
But now the Duke of Buckingham and I
It may be worth thy pains; for I can sing
To set a gloss upon his bold intent,
The holy suit which fain it would convince,
Dead, dead? A tomb
example my digression by some mighty precedent.
Why, what's a moveable?
Patience, good sir,
O insupportable! O heavy hour!
With such a smooth, discreet and stable bearing
Which overshades the mouth of that same pit
Me they concern; Regent I am of France.
And that I owe Olivia.
[Aside]  I would fain see this meeting.
O'ertake pursued success, but I do feel,
So;
Will't please your worship to come in, sir?
And power, unto itself most commendable,
Just as my master had direction:
In holier shapes: for there is boundless theft
God keep your ladyship still in that mind! so some
Who comes here?
Familiar as his garter: that, when he speaks,
Is this the king we sent to for his ransom?
Some little memory of me will stir him--
I deem you an ill husband, and am glad
Re-enter ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER, and Provost
And I, as fits my nature, do obey you:
Before I would have yielded to this league.
Doth set my pugging tooth on edge;
properer can we can our own than the riches of our
Exeunt DEMETRIUS and CHIRON bearing off the Nurse's body
Which you have cited, you must buy that peace
And top of sovereignty?
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Hard to seem won: but I was won, my lord,
Canonized and worshipped as a saint,
Exit MARIA
Should be past grief: do not receive affliction
Bearing it to the bloody slaughter-house,
Upon condition I may quietly
Gardener, for telling me these news of woe,
Sir,
With twenty mortal murders on their crowns,
Why, knows not Montague that of itself
His fortunes I will weep; and, 'twixt each groan
By fearing to attempt. Go to Lord Angelo,
Till thou the lie-giver and that lie do lie
This fellow pecks up wit as pigeons pease,
We come not by the way of accusation,
As far as doth the Capitol exceed
It may be so: but if he say it is so, he is, in
how the young folks lay their heads together!
What, shall I come? the hour?
Come, mistress, you must tell's another tale.
Exeunt
Too much the rein: the strongest oaths are straw
or thus. Our bodies are our gardens, to the which
What, can the devil speak true?
More than a little is by much too much.
Is he come?
This cardinal,
they drink,
Not I:
For the flowers now, that frighted thou let'st fall
'Tis in the malice of mankind that he thus advises
O my good lord, you were the first that found me!
An if you please to call it a rush-candle,
many irreconciled iniquities, you may call the
great fire; and the master I speak of ever keeps a
I will prove so, sir, to my power.
And let us, ciphers to this great accompt,
But, for my will, my will is your good will
I had rather break mine own. Good my lord, enter.
The cable broke, the holding-anchor lost,
So full of artless jealousy is guilt,
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead:
Whose hearts are absent too.
Where I did meet thee once with Helena,
A lack, when once our grace we have forgot,
The story then goes false, you threw it him
My own flesh and blood to rebel!
I am no traitor.
shalt be!' This have I thought good to deliver
Those pelican daughters.
Sir, I know that well enough.
My lord of Kent: remember him hereafter as my
You with your children will he send before:
So 'tis: this comes off well and excellent.
It must of force.
To hold your slaughtering hands and keep the peace.
There's no harm done.
Is this done?
I tell you 'tis not very well. I will make myself
Give me those flowers. Do as I bid thee, go.
Upon the right hand I; keep thou the left.
Scratching her legs that one shall swear she bleeds,
I cannot do't without counters. Let me see; what am
Feste, the jester, my lord; a fool that the lady
of his act.
Will stupefy and dull the sense awhile;
Enter a Messenger
I will but teach them to sing, and restore them to
Will you draw near!
To lop that doubt, he'll fill this land with arms,
Sicinius Velutus, and I know not--'Sdeath!
By Christ's dear blood shed for our grievous sins,
That she repeals him for her body's lust;
It shall be so.
That done, dissever your united strengths,
Yet living in my glass; even such and so
Than e'er the coward hand of France can win:
Exeunt
Thy name well fits thy faith, thy faith thy name.
But you, Sir Thurio, are not sharp enough;
All is lost;
Gladly, my lord.
presence, even the presence of Lord Mortimer, that I
Two bosoms interchained with an oath;
Freedom, hey-day! hey-day, freedom! freedom,
That thrust had been mine enemy indeed,
faith. How does your little son?
In hell-black night endured, would have buoy'd up,
And we will fear no poison, which attends
SCENE II. Another room in the palace.
But kings and mightiest potentates must die,
But that 'tis shown ignobly and in treason.
Till he have brought thee up to yonder troops,
A foolish thing was but a toy,
Or, ere they meet, in me, O nature, cesse!
What is the cause of thunder?
The French king's daughter with yourself to speak--
Word of denial in thy labras here!
Should be deposed; and, being, that we detain
And, in the hearing of these many friends,
Good Lord Boyet, my beauty, though but mean,
Most like a careful subject, have collected
Our appertainments, visiting of him:
Till I am even'd with him, wife for wife,
To seek thy life by beneficial help:
I charged thee that she should not come about me:
An if my father please, I am content.
Are making hither with all due expedience
O wither'd truth!
We shall be shorten'd in our aim, which was
Endure a further view.
Are, by the laws of Venice, confiscate
I do beseech your lordship, call her back.
How I may be deliver'd of these woes,
thy quiddities? what a plague have I to do with a
Nothing.
'Tis their fresh supplies.
Throw thy glove,
My noble father,
For I was spoke to, with Sir Henry Guildford
And you within it: if he fail of that,
How now, Ophelia! what's the matter?
I Pompey am,--
A peevish schoolboy, worthless of such honour,
Not to be over-ruled. Idle old man,
Who lies i' the second chamber?
be strange, stout, in yellow stockings, and
I'll show thee the best springs; I'll pluck thee berries;
if in our youths we could pick up some pretty
To leave a rich Jew's service, to become
own child. Well, old man, I will tell you news of
See as thou wast wont to see:
Farewell.
I will, my Hermia.
For lifting food to't? But I will punish home:
Good uncle, I beseech you, on my knees! beseech you,
As much as me my dukedom.
Doth make an earthquake of nobility.
Than some, whose tailors are as dear as yours,
Thou art not here: murder is thy alms-deed;
Galen is but empiricutic, and, to this preservative,
His banners sable, trimm'd with rich expense;
As you, prince Paris, nothing but heavenly business
We will not meddle with him till he come; for his
But, pray you, stir no embers up. Here comes
With such full licence as both truth and malice
At Southam I did leave him with his forces,
As my great patron thought on in my prayers,--
The accuser and the accused freely speak:
And tarry for the comfort of the day.
Well, your imprisonment shall not be long;
if there is any martial law in the world.
Live in your country here in banishment,
Out of a foreign wisdom, renouncing clean
The benediction of these covering heavens
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE
Are we betray'd thus to thy over-view?
To make a faithless error in your ears:
Of greatest justice. Write, write, Rinaldo,
By which he should revive: and even so
skin that was killed for the Prodigal; he that came
Thy name is Gaultier, being rightly sounded.
I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
there are certain condolements, certain vails. I
He has discover'd my design, and I
Yet heard too much of Phebe's cruelty.
Exit
Have woe to woe, sorrow to sorrow join'd.
Deserve not worse than wretched Clarence did,
some more towns in France. Soldiers, defer the
Those rich-left heirs that let their fathers lie
To Henry's body, and supply his place;
To be unbent when thou hast ta'en thy stand,
And bring thee cords made like a tackled stair;
For Gratiano never lets me speak.
That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
O fortune, fortune! all men call thee fickle:
thanks: but that I will have a recheat winded in my
Since nought so stockish, hard and full of rage,
And does the meanest chares. It were for me
for mercy and still run and roared, as ever I heard
Exit Poins
Never believe me. Both are my kinsmen:
Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket.
And, whilst we breathe, take time to do him dead.
cunning of it; I found it thrown in at the
That she might admired be.
Turns into yellow gold his salt green streams.
So strangely in one piece.
My daughter weeps: she will not part with you;
Had made provision for her following me
You might have been enough the man you are,
To give these mourning duties to your father:
They fell before thee like sheep and oxen, and thou
In my behavior to the majesty,
He is a privileged man. Proceed, Thersites.
May you be happy in your wish, my lord
To do you justice, make them ministers
By treason, falsehood and by treachery,
I have not deserved this.
Have glozed, but superficially: not much
Long in his highness' favour, and do justice
But thieves do lose it: steal no less for this
defend thee.'
For fear you ne'er see chain nor money more.
And, if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
Why do you bend such solemn brows on me?
Become some women best, so that there be not
But, soft! here come my executioners.
Divinely bent to meditation;
What has he done to Rome that's worthy death?
True; and thou seest that I no issue have
Thou'rt a good boy: this secrecy of thine shall be
If she live long,
Exeunt
Heaven guard my mother's honour and my land!
Upbraid's with our distress. But, sure, if you
Enter Hostess
I have promised to make all this matter even.
With all my heart, sir.
That strain again! it had a dying fall:
Once more, good night, kind lords and gentlemen.
a pen, good uncle.
There to be used according to your state.
Would one day stamp upon me: 't has been done;
Turn then my freshest reputation to
Or may I never--
Cleopatra and himself in chairs of gold
She ne'er had known pomp: though't be temporal,
Enter HASTINGS
That souls of animals infuse themselves
It were good that Benedick knew of it by some
Let's to bed, knight. Thou hadst need send for
Hear me, O, hear me!
Pourquoi, my dear knight?
Fie on't! ah fie! 'tis an unweeded garden,
For though her father be the King of Naples,
The dropsy drown this fool I what do you mean
And offer me disguised in sober robes
Relate your wrongs; in what? by whom? be brief.
I put you o'er to heaven and to my mother:
So may it be, indeed:
All night for lesser cause, and ne'er been sick.
And to 't they go like lightning, for, ere I
How likes she my discourse?
Stones have been known to move and trees to speak;
I see that nose of yours, but not that dog I shall
You great fellow,
Do hiss me into madness.
A lack of Timon's aid, hath sense withal
No, it will hang upon my richest robes
And ever and anon they made a doubt
bill, give me thy mete-yard, and spare not me.
Yea, my good lord. How still the evening is,
With any strong or vehement importunity;
And that is my petition, noble lord:
Throng our large temples with the shows of peace,
That it may enter Mowbray's waxen coat,
advised him for the entertainment of death.
Not lack your company.
O, had thy grandsire with a prophet's eye
Whom now I keep in service. Thou best know'st
Exit HASTINGS
leave them: and, sirrah, I have cases of buckram
With knaves that smell of sweat: say this
In lieu of this last night did lie with me.
Orlando?
But when I came, alas! to wive,
Summon their general unto the wall.
Have you deserved: it is my father's music
The pretty-vaulting sea refused to drown me,
Tut, tut,
'Was' is not 'is:' besides, the oath of a lover is
O your sweet queen!
We are wise girls to mock our lovers so.
With such a brabbler.
ANTIPHOLUS
By medicine life may be prolong'd, yet death
Converting all your sounds of woe
Well mock'd.
By laying defects of judgment to me; but
Whiles you beguile the time and feed your knowledge
A damned saint, an honourable villain!
Farewell. Come hither to me.
It reaches far, and where 'twill not extend,
There lie thy bones, sweet Mutius, with thy friends,
To meet with joy in sweet Jerusalem.
Sure, he does not:
and of the season too, it shall appear.
would require is likewise your own benefit.
Beshrew me, the knight's in admirable fooling.
Leave them as naked as the vulgar air.
To bring manslaughter into form and set quarrelling
It is as fat and fulsome to mine ear
I got them in my country's service, when
Stand!
Then I perceive that will be verified
Answer as I call you. Nick Bottom, the weaver.
And swear unto my soul to right your wrongs.
Ay, my good lord, I know the gentleman
And with my fingers feel his hand unfeeling:
That I'll resume the shape which thou dost think
Romeo's a dishclout to him: an eagle, madam,
sea again; lay her off.
Madam, you have done me wrong,
provost, honesty and constancy: if I read it not
Without a parallel; those being all my study,
And all your northern castles yielded up,
There they stand yet, and modestly I think,
And bid me give it thee? Didst thou not hear their shouts?
When I have walked like a private man,
But still, where danger was, still there I met him;
What would you 'fore our tent?
I have forgot him: my imagination
My manly eyes did scorn an humble tear;
The colour of the king doth come and go
Close by the ground, to hear our conference.
me to the top of my bent. I will come by and by.
The slave, a member of the country's peace,
use his master so, being perhaps, for aught I see,
And mine, a hundred and forty.
Nay, if I keep not my rank,--
Holla the other.
myself and thee during my life; I for a valiant
The sun is in the heaven, and the proud day,
Let thy courtesies alone, they are scurvy ones.
Upon our fail? to this point hast thou heard him
or we run ourselves aground: bestir, bestir.
videlicit, in a love-cause. Troilus had his brains
Remember to avenge me on the French.'
An if she do, I would I were an eunuch.
But fettle your fine joints 'gainst Thursday next,
I grant him bloody,
Nor shall not, whilst 'tis in my custody.
Only fair speech.
This is mere madness:
It blots thy beauty as frosts do bite the meads,
And why not death rather than living torment?
Let them not speak a word; the guilt is plain;
I shower a welcome on ye; welcome all.
Gone slightly o'er low steps and now are mounted
And see you read no other lectures to her:
Heaven prosper the right! What weapons is he?
Why should he stay, whom love doth press to go?
That you have in her, bid her answer truly.
You cavil, widow: I did mean, my queen.
For an hour.
good Christians ought to have.
yet, a barful strife!
Friar, thou knowest not the duke so well as I do:
Will prove too bloody, and the end of it
To think it was so? O, give me thy hand,
I follow'd that I blush to look upon:
This marvel to you.
lead, and as heavy too: God keep lead out of me! I
If either of you know any inward impediment why you
lend me thy sword.
Near twenty years ago, in Genoa,
[Aside]  I know not what impediment this complaint
With falsehood, cowardice and poor descent,
As I would do the gods. But, O thou tyrant!
Myself could else out-frown false fortune's frown.
And rattles in their hands: upon a sudden,
As it is known she is, these moral laws
Lieutenant, is it you whose voice I hear?
Young Arthur's death is common in their mouths:
Of a cut loaf to steal a shive, we know:
Will put thy shirt on warm? will these moss'd trees,
And let my officers of such a nature
If not by war, by surfeit die your king,
Speak gentle words and humbly bend thy knee,
Exit
Re-enter LUCIUS and MARCUS
soar, I am a hawk: he trots the air; the earth
Deliver'd you a paper that I should not:
Mine and your mistress! O, my lord Posthumus!
Third Serving-man	My lord, we know your grace to be a man
But let us give him burial, as becomes;
A rising sigh he wisheth you in heaven.
on with my speech in your praise, and then show you
Mark Antony is in your tents, my lord
and a stand: ruminates like an hostess that hath no
Were not derived corruptly, and that clear honour
ANTIPHOLUS
Now I do wish it, love it, long for it,
The due o' the verdict with it: at what ease
Her father's liking: which to bring to pass,
Until it wither with me to my grave
Folly in fools bears not so strong a note
Thy sting is not so sharp
The Trojan trumpets sound the like, my lord.
SCENE II. London. The palace.
What wilt thou do?
his discretion.
If, after three days' space, thou here be'st found
A Roman thought hath struck him. Enobarbus!
Why, this that I speak of.
That stretch their duties nicely.
And kingly dignity, we are contented
up at the door of a brothel-house for the sign of
Of more arrivance.
And charge that no man should disturb your rest
Out of your favours, heavenly spirits, vouchsafe
To the people; not by your own instruction,
Thou concludest like the sanctimonious pirate, that
Good Master Shallow, let him woo for himself.
May here find truth too. Those that come to see
Look, what I speak, my life shall prove it true;
The blood of malice in a vein of league,
No, no, forsooth; I dare not for my life.
My loving lord, I take my leave of you;
We'll sure provide: thou shalt have my best gown to
Throw your vile guesses in the devil's teeth,
that decerns you nearly.
You call'd me dog; and for these courtesies
Bold as an oracle, and sets Thersites,
I am a poor fellow, sir.
In every power that moves.
As to annoy us all: which to prevent,
Pray heaven, the king may never find a heart
Upon the foot of fear, fled with the rest;
like a man at a mark, with a whole army shooting at
with their left legs and not presume to touch a hair
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS
That in crossways and floods have burial,
For Rome, towards Marcius.
The gain I seek is, quiet in the match.
ACT IV
Varlet, thou liest; thou liest, wicked varlet! the
Had we no quarrel else to Rome, but that
meaning thereby that grapes were made to eat and
Good morrow to your lordship.
Relieved him with such sanctity of love,
snowball; saying his prayers too.
That it do singe yourself: we may outrun,
Beget your happiness, be happy then,
What pleasure was he given to?
Is here attending: her business looks in her
It would be my disgrace and your discomfort:
Come, answer not, but to it presently!
But thou shalt hear it: whistle then to me,
And now I remember, my lord, you gave
If they will patiently receive my medicine.
Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.
dizzy the arithmetic of memory, and yet but yaw
And mine, fair lady Bona, joins with yours.
Most of our city did: only myself stood out;
The duke himself, and the magnificoes
And this is mine: sweet Henry, favour him.
doctor to such a man.
If we, with thrice such powers left at home,
Which heaven and fortune still rewards with plagues.
O my good lord, when I was like this maid,
Doth he so seek his life?
Pride, pomp and circumstance of glorious war!
one be a man of his own fancy, not to know what we
We are too well acquainted with these answers:
My mistress, dearest;
I am yours,
Whom Fortune with her ivory hand wafts to her;
and will not--
be my lord such-a-one, that praised my lord
Yet he is come.
Youth, thou bear'st thy father's face;
Whom thou, in terms so bloody and so dear,
Drew on me here again.
I will revenge his wrong to Lady Bona,
As it were doomsday.
Peasant, avaunt! You have suborn'd this man,
excellent news of your husband.
late, she did praise my leg being cross-gartered;
Ajax: it kills sheep; it kills me, I a sheep:
Bear him away. What is thy name, young man?
me no service as a partisan I could not heave.
They are set here for examples.
She is alive; behold,
Let it go naked, men may see't the better:
Your maidenheads growing: O Proserpina,
The meanest house in Rome, so far my son--
Which soon he granted,
Shall lose the royalty of England's throne.
true maid.
I'll speak to thee in silence.
present itself; a devilish knave. Besides, the
Whose haughty spirit, winged with desire,
And tumble me into some loathsome pit,
Into this sea of air.
Ha, come and bring away the nets!
The devil himself could not pronounce a title
Being free itself, it thinks all others so.
There is no remedy, sir, but you must die: the
As index to the story we late talk'd of,
Madam!
Jack, meet me to-morrow in the temple hall at two
And time, that takes survey of all the world,
Spoke he of me?
We attend his lordship; pray, signify so much.
I do remit these young men's heinous faults: Stand up.
Henry now lives in Scotland at his ease,
Sons, let it be your charge, as it is ours,
Farewell; for I must leave you:
The leisure and enforcement of the time
Hear what I say, and then go home and lose me.
Well, sir, get you in: I will not long be troubled
Enter AARON, with a bag of gold
Enter SIR TOBY BELCH, SIR ANDREW, and FABIAN
Bid him set on his powers betimes before,
When I was born:
mean pirates, and then there is the peril of waters,
I warrant thee. Meet me by and by at the citadel:
Why not on Proteus, as of all the rest?
We here attend you. Are you yet determined
your lover.
Tell me, sweet uncle, what's the matter?
Exeunt all, except Clown
I come to woo ladies, I fright them. But, in faith,
Full fathom five thy father lies;
To CORIOLANUS
They tell thee true.
Now, daughter Silvia, you are hard beset.
If I in act, consent, or sin of thought,
bed, and warm thee.
Of roaring, shrieking, howling, jingling chains,
Then take him up and manage well the jest:
Now, sir, how do you find the prisoner?
What late misfortune is befall'n King Edward?
In further evil?
The bird that hath been limed in a bush,
notable fellow.
But I will tell you at some meeter season:
Must there no more be done?
By him that made us all, I am resolved
And look'd upon things precious as they were
Exeunt
See Brutus at his house: three parts of him
For here, I hope, begins our lasting joy.
you'll undertake her no more?
Horribly stuff'd with epithets of war;
Why, are ye mad? or know ye not, in Rome
That wrings mine eyes to't.
We had not been thus shamefully surprised.
Ha, what say'st thou, Silvius?
Four days ago.
ANTIPHOLUS
grows old: God help the while! a bad world, I say.
They shake their heads
Threw off his spirit, his appetite, his sleep,
Are they good?
I would adventure.
Do not deny. Beshrew his soul for me,
And fightest with the sword of Deborah.
Why, hath your principal made known unto you who I am?
Who? Camillo?
Antiochus, I thank thee, who hath taught
Were I but where 'tis spoken.
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
'Tis he. God and Saint Stephen give you good den:
He spieth FALSTAFF on the ground
At a fair vestal throned by the west,
Environed he was with many foes,
The king shall know it, and, no doubt, shall thank you.
it too; or else I shall seek my wit in my shoulders.
Sirrah Biondello, go and entreat my wife
For that will physic the great Myrmidon
Talking of hawking; nothing else, my lord.
Confessor to him; with that devil-monk,
AJAX and HECTOR enter the lists
My father Capulet will have it so;
Listen, fair madam: let it be your glory
And be not jealous on me, gentle Brutus:
Might have the freer course.
Sound a sennet. Enter KING HENRY VI, GLOUCESTER,  CARDINAL, BUCKINGHAM, YORK, SOMERSET, SALISBURY, WARWICK, and the DUCHESS
Fright me with urchin--shows, pitch me i' the mire,
My derivation was from ancestors
And all eyes else dead coals! Fear thou no wife;
Poins! Now shall we know if Gadshill have set a
Why then, my love adieu!
I say, yea.
Your grace attended to their sugar'd words,
They say so most that most his humours know.
Will I make good against thee, arm to arm,
Of Edward's heirs the murderer shall be.
Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops.
Who ever knew the heavens menace so?
I lost my liberty and they their lives.
Away, thou issue of a mangy dog!
My lord, I see you're moved.
But none returns. For us to levy power
Than on the torture of the mind to lie
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son,--
Exeunt Servants
My love as deep; the more I give to thee,
When thou hold'st up thy hand: O, let me kiss
puny drawer to what end he gave me the sugar; and do
But is he often thus?
of his leg, the manner of his gait, the expressure
From Florence and must here deliver them.
Prick him down, Antony.
Sirrah, your brother is legitimate;
Touching that point.
Hume must make merry with the duchess' gold;
But O! the devil'--there the villain stopp'd
By that sin fell the angels; how can man, then,
My servant, sir! 'Twas never merry world
If you require a little space for prayer,
be a torment to her contempt. He on the ground, my
Why, 'tis no great matter; for a very little thief of
It is not friendly, 'tis not maidenly:
Let's see the boy's face.
And I to Ford shall eke unfold
As she lived now.
He is thy crutch; now if thou lose thy stay,
Re-enter URSULA
Nor can imagination form a shape,
With those of Norway, or did line the rebel
Ransoming him, or pitying, threatening the other;
you're drunk.
Exit
Be ruled by me, forget to think of her.
under the dead moon-calf's gaberdine for fear of
For my part, if a lie may do thee grace,
I wish your horses swift and sure of foot;
In fine, delivers me to fill the time,
from a first.
bring the device to the bar and crown thee for a
To answer other business. Shrug'st thou, malice?
Our cannons' malice vainly shall be spent
Pray heaven, he sound not my disgrace! For certain,
I arrest thee of high treason, by the name of
With wild wood-leaves and weeds I ha' strew'd his grave,
Re-enter AEdile, with Citizens
The surgeon's box, or the patient's wound.
If I do not, never trust me, take it how you will.
Good uncle, help to order several powers
I would not by my will have troubled you;
As I am a Christians soul now, look you, this is the
If not, when you have stomachs.
Away,
Great shouts within and all cry 'The mean knight!'
Like Niobe, all tears:--why she, even she--
needs be hanged with your pardons about your necks?
Prefix'd for's parting: yet, good deed, Leontes,
The shadow of my sorrow! ha! let's see:
Can any way speak in his just commend;
How! I inform them!
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
Upon his son; who, high in name and power,
Use us and it.
Of my nation! What ish my nation? Ish a villain,
And drink it off; and, if you had the strength
His nobleness well acted, which your death
Are men endued with worthy qualities:
On the fore-finger of an alderman,
Troilus had rather Troy were borne to Greece
Did young Lorenzo swear he loved her well,
That he is not only plagued for her sin,
Go tell this heavy message to the king.
Paying the fine of rated treachery
Their deer to the stand o' the stealer; and 'tis gold
The villany of our fears.
by'r lady, inclining to three score; and now I
What is it else? a madness most discreet,
Of maiden's patience. Hast thou slain him, then?
What, my lord?
Than Marchioness of Pembroke: to which title
Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and DORSET
Is it not lawful, an please your majesty, to tell
Why so earnestly seek you to put up that letter?
We cannot without circumstance descry.
That he misconstrues all that you have done.
And make fair weather in your blustering land.
Lady, of that I have made a bold charter; but I
It would infect his speech, that if the king
That thou depart'st hence safe,
Do not torment me, prithee; I'll bring my wood home faster.
Pistol him, pistol him.
Break open shops; nothing can you steal,
Under yond yew-trees lay thee all along,
Hath pluck'd him after.
Peace, both, and hear me speak.
cover of the salt hides the salt, and therefore it
Enter Servant
I go of message from the queen to France;
Prove holy water on thee! Imogen,
Save that, they say, the wars must make examples
Would you imagine, or almost believe,
For I was born at sea.
I prithee, Diomed, visit me no more.
I mean, sir, in delay
Is friendly with him.
Come, come; we'll couch i' the castle-ditch till we
SCENE IV. Outside Macbeth's castle.
For which the youthful lover now is gone
The ox hath therefore stretch'd his yoke in vain,
rescue in the first assault or ransom afterward.
Is most divinely vow'd upon the right
Retires
'Tis probable and palpable to thinking.
In very brief, the suit is impertinent to myself, as
A little time, my lord, will kill that grief.
That I will here dismiss my loving friends,
will fit any question.
Rugby, my rapier!
All the commerce that you have had with Troy
Cave here, hunt here, are outlaws, and in time
white and red.
If it be, sir, I pray you, eat none of it.
And say, you found them in mine honesty.
The child-bed privilege denied, which 'longs
Your voices therefore.' When we granted that,
I should not know you, Brutus. Dear my lord,
But yet thou art my flesh, my blood, my daughter;
COUNTESS
And he did render him the most unnatural
Ere you can take due orders for a priest:
Most mighty duke, vouchsafe me speak a word:
It would amaze the proudest of you all.
I grant ye.
And so had I; but yet, for fashion sake, I thank you
ever lost: 'tis too cold a companion; away with 't!
When with his knees he kiss'd the Cretan strand.
Why, what's the matter?
and I pray you all go with me.
And so dies my revenge.
Base slave, thy words are blunt and so art thou.
As I am an honest man, he looks pale. Art thou
Is not this Stephano, my drunken butler?
Receive them then, the tribute that I owe,
Thy demon, that's thy spirit which keeps thee, is
Thou told'st me they were stolen unto this wood;
Get me a ladder.
That chamberers have, or for I am declined
man's son,' or rather an honest woman's son; for,
And hath preferr'd thee, if it be preferment
The fraughting souls within her.
To lead him where he would: his roguish madness
That had he Duncan's sons under his key--
and, which is more, a householder, and, which is
More stern and bloody than the Centaurs' feast.
It doth so, holy sir; and there's my master,
then, death, death!
The like to you kind Varro.
Open the door, or I will break it open.
Make boot upon the summer's velvet buds,
He chides to hell and bids the other grow
The news I have to tell your majesty
That we present us to him.
and rebels' arms triumph in massacres!
She says, you have it, and you may be gone.
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
Our cousin Hereford and fell Mowbray fight:
SCENE I. London. The Parliament-house.
And show more sign of her obedience,
compliment; I forgive thy duty; adieu.
the dearer by I know how much an ounce.
Which never were nor no man ever saw.
Endue you with the people's voice: remains
Twenty-three years, and saw myself unbreech'd,
Re-enter Attendant
To weed my vice and let his grow!
Hover through the fog and filthy air.
It hath pleased the gods to remember my father's age,
Why, such is love's transgression.
your wife's wit going to your neighbour's bed.
Find out the prettiest daisied plot we can,
My Lord Pandarus; honey-sweet lord,--
Do or undo, as if ourself were here.
to my husband he is now here, and hath drawn him and
Go, tread the path that thou shalt ne'er return.
The flower that's like thy face, pale primrose, nor
Vincetino's son brought up in Florence
Sow all the Athenian bosoms; and their crop
But I am troubled here with them myself;
They have said their prayers, and they stay for death.
This mercy shows we'll joy in such a son:
Or any he the proudest of thy sort.
Hath stepp'd into the law, which is past depth
This done, see that you take no longer days,
tongues of the French council; and they should
DON
company to Venice, that swear he cannot choose but break.
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
parcel of their feast, and to be executed ere they
For there, they say, he daily doth frequent,
These times of woe afford no time to woo.
Nay, an I tell you that, Ill ne'er look you i' the
This morning for ten thousand of your throats
'Tis call'd the evil:
Follow his strides, his lobbies fill with tendance,
For that which I did then: beaten for loyalty
Will bless it and approve it with a text,
Might shake off fifty, looking in her eye:
SCENE III. The forest.
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will.
[Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
And all to all.
Either past or not arrived to pith and puissance;
An alarum. Enter TALBOT in an excursion
Well, God give them wisdom that have it; and those
O young John Talbot! I did send for thee
I have from your Sicilian shores dismiss'd;
What you will have it named, even that it is;
Into your private chamber, we shall give you
Mayst smile at this: thou shalt not choose but go:
And dispossessing all my other parts
For to a vision so apparent rumour
Yet are these feet, whose strengthless stay is numb,
And his kinsman too.
And thou, to be endeared to a king,
say there's but five upon this isle: we are three
Where bloody murder or detested rape
She melted into air. Affrighted much,
Call forth Bagot.
Tush, tush! fear boys with bugs.
'Tis policy and stratagem must do
Let pale-faced fear keep with the mean-born man,
And in possession twenty thousand crowns.
You lie, in faith; for you are call'd plain Kate,
Shall out-tongue his complaints. 'Tis yet to know,--
Were the graced person of our Banquo present;
Nor cheer of mind, that I was wont to have.
As salt as wolves in pride, and fools as gross
Is he in person ready?
Wilt have him live? Is he thy kin? thy friend?
Giving a paper
Alas, my lord, hang me, if ever I spake the words.
till our very pastime, tired out of breath, prompt
Lies down and sleeps
do yours, for upholding the nice fashion of your
Fear, and not love, begets his penitence:
Ascend, brave Talbot; we will follow thee.
Subdue him at his peril.
Your death has eyes in 's head then; I have not seen
I doubt not but this populous city will
What's your name?
My state was nothing, I should then have told you
What think'st thou of the fair Sir Eglamour?
O dainty duck! O dear!
Sir John, you are so fretful, you cannot live long.
What horrible fancy's this?
Masters,--
Good sir, be patient.
Sirrah, look to't; i' faith, I will, i' faith.
My lord, I know not what the matter is; but, to my
Ay, my lord, and of calf-skins too.
And yet a maiden hath no tongue but thought,--
Rancour will out: proud prelate, in thy face
My present business calls me from you now.
his recoveries: is this the fine of his fines, and
C'est bien dit, madame; il est fort bon Anglois.
Nay, then.
See, where he stands between two clergymen!
My master is grown quarrelsome. I should knock
Exit LEPIDUS
And have prevail'd as much on him as you.
too wenchless.
Stamped in gold, but that's insculp'd upon;
Within the scorched veins of one new-burn'd.
Valance of Venice gold in needlework,
What, like a corse?
In us, thy friend: give me thy hand, stand up:
No, I will not:
Thus ever did rebellion find rebuke.
summer-birds are men. Gentlemen, our dinner will not
SCENE I. Before OLIVIA's house.
the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
Exit Servant
No; he is best endued in the small.
Beseech you,--
truly I think if all our wits were to issue out of
Stanley, look to your wife; if she convey
Ay, so well, that you must be her master,
Assign'd am I to be the English scourge.
Here is the number of the slaughter'd French.
And arm the minds of infants to exclaims.
Live, and thrive!
I fight against thee! No: I will go seek
O well-divided disposition! Note him,
As well appeareth by the cause you come;
Your grace shall pardon me, I will not back:
'You must amend your drunkenness.'
O, spare my guiltless wife and my poor children!
O pardonnez moi!
And presently repair to Crosby Place;
I will resolve your grace immediately.
Hast prisoner held, fetter'd in amorous chains
What like, offensive.
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star;
To let him live: where he arrives he moves
Such men my friends than enemies. Go on,
Whereby I see that Time's the king of men,
And as the butcher takes away the calf
She had all the royal makings of a queen;
You are too swift, sir, to say so:
Go therefore, tell thy master here I am;
Christian and heathen, must be be-lee'd and calm'd
Do you think 'tis this?
Thou swear'st thy gods in vain.
A whining mammet, in her fortune's tender,
lie.
And by the royalties of both your bloods,
Ay, that's a colt indeed, for he doth nothing but
Some sleeves, some hats, from yielders all
Our noble general, do not do so.
day? Unless hours were cups of sack and minutes
That's the way; for women are light at midnight.
No further service, doctor,
Poor soul! his eyes are red as fire with weeping.
Whoe'er a' was, a' show'd a mounting mind.
Tanta est erga te mentis integritas, regina
Exit
a pair of strange ones.
Upon our houses' thatch, whiles a more frosty people
To mine own room again; making so bold,
And make you long become it!
And then my husband--God be with his soul!
Till cruel Cleon, with his wicked wife,
one man but he will wear his cap with suspicion?
Is ours already, and the man entire
Gloucester;
thing more than contempt, you would not give means
This youth should say 'twere well and only therefore
it at heart! Pray God, he be not bewitched!
O, how this spring of love resembleth
come, come, come, come, give me your hand. What's
I fear me, never.
Straight after did I meet him with a chain.
in's forehead.
Sweet masters, be patient: for your father's
If crooked fortune had not thwarted me.
She giveth SATURNINUS a letter
When I had seen this hot love on the wing--
Before I freely speak my mind herein,
All that is mine I leave at thy dispose,
Enter PUCK
Ay, and I'll give them him without a fee.
Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition:
How? to send him word they'll meet him in the park
Never to rise again: thy mother's poison'd:
Two traded pilots 'twixt the dangerous shores
It comprehends some bringer of that joy;
Because I know you well and love you well,
What a caterwauling do you keep here! If my lady
O dear discretion, how his words are suited!
Wherein I did not some notorious ill,
My sacred aunt, should by my mortal sword
Besides, old Gremio is hearkening still;
To put the finger in the eye and weep,
Soon may I hear and see him!
Seeing too much sadness hath congeal'd your blood,
these please you?
Deservedly confined into this rock,
marks of sovereignty, knowledge, and reason,
But that Achilles, were his brain as barren
Then call them to our presence; face to face,
to this man how Don John your brother incensed me
An act that very chance doth throw upon him--
Is't possible?
bones, their bones!
Our very priests must become mockers, if they shall
O, treble woe
Look out, and speak to friends: the Athenians,
cousin Shallow.
His rigorous course; but since he stands obdurate
No better, if you please.
Then, since this earth affords no joy to me,
What are you made of? you'll nor fight nor fly:
Much more a shrew of thy impatient humour.
Where lies your text?
excelled many: but I have not seen the most
And you sat smiling at his cruel pray.
From over-credulous haste: but God above
must know of me then, Antonio, my name is Sebastian,
In hugger-mugger to inter him: poor Ophelia
As I will lend you cause, my doing well
have been sharp and sententious; pleasant without
Or sue to you to do a peculiar profit
The handkerchief!
But what says she to me? be brief, my good
Now when the lords and barons of the realm
It seems the marriage with his brother's wife
Captain of our fairy band,
which rolls, and rolls, and rolls: in good truth,
rosemary and Romeo begin both with a letter?
For worms, brave Percy: fare thee well, great heart!
Shallow, esquire, saith, he is wronged.
As there is sense in truth and truth in virtue,
Great king, I am no strumpet, by my life;
Why, then, give way, dull clouds, to my quick curses!
And wander up and down to view the city.
philosopher, when he had a desire to eat a grape,
The marigold, that goes to bed wi' the sun
She returns this ring to you, sir: you might have
Ready.
To fight with Glendower and the Earl of March.
Why, one that swears and lies.
I have lived
And thou art honest too.
So doth my heart misgive me, in these conflicts
Perhaps he sees it not; or his good nature
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' the throat,
And never trouble Peter for the matter.
The man I speak of cannot in the world
Is free for me to ask, thee to bestow.
One of your lordship's pages.
'Twixt Guynes and Arde:
I prithee, gentle friend,
You shall not be
Now, until the break of day,
And all such false professors! would you have me--
What will you do? Let's not consort with them:
him with a talent.
Thus will I fold them one on another:
It is enthroned in the hearts of kings,
Sir, you say well and well you do conceive;
Sweet soul, take heed,
Stand not to answer: here, take thou the hilts;
'Tis far off
Go, Gratiano, run and overtake him;
Save bidding farewell to so sweet a guest
Wilt thou go?
Art thou his father?
ingrateful injury; to report otherwise, were a
So please your majesty,
He is at hand; and Pindarus is come
SCENE IV. The same. A tent.
Say that he thrive, as 'tis great like he will,
Are not with me esteem'd above thy life:
his death is enrolled in the Capitol; his glory not
Hereafter time, for time past wrong'd by thee.
I will not live to be accounted Warwick.
God save your honour!
For this reason, if you'll know,
SCENE II. The same. The field of battle.
most potent in potting: your Dane, your German, and
Will cry for vengeance at the gates of heaven.
He's father, son, and husband mild;
better plight for a lender than you are: the which
Lord mayor,--
own appointment; even as you came in to me, her
Perform what you command us.
He was much fear'd by his physicians.
And look you lay it in the praetor's chair,
Of a full-charged confederacy, and give thanks
My lord, I did intend it.
But thou art not quickly moved to strike.
This fellow here, Lord Timon, this thy creature,
Serving alike in sorrow: leak'd is our bark,
To one that can my part in him advertise;
After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
and by and by in as high a flow as the ridge of the gallows.
dances, he has eyes of youth, he writes verses, he
It was my folly; if industriously
O, what a sympathy of woe is this,
King'd of our fears, until our fears, resolved,
And not one vessel 'scape the dreadful touch
Makes him speak fondly, like a frantic man
Dost thou love hawking? thou hast hawks will soar
I will denounce a curse upon his head.
Proceed thus rashly to the villain's death,
I long
Therefore the earth, fearing to be o'erflow'd,
Courage! there will be pity taken on you: you that
Stood in your action.
No, gentle madam; I unworthy am
I do not know the French for fer, and ferret, and firk.
I have promised to study three years with the duke.
If you would seek us,
No part of him but will be shame in me.
Sneak not away, sir; for the friar and you
Comes rushing on this woeful land at once!
Come thronging soft and delicate desires,
And this for Rutland; both bound to revenge,
Ere I could make a prologue to my brains,
Sweet Hero! now thy image doth appear
Your need to sustain;
To try your taking a false report; which hath
Do not then walk too open.
What, was I born to this, that my sad look
Giving a paper
Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghosted,
If he were seated as King Edward is.
Our royal, good and gallant ship, our master
And faints for succor.
Without the form of justice, yet our power
But come, my lord, let us away.
To him that is most true. To Milford go,
Went'st not thou to her for a purse of ducats?
In his bright radiance and collateral light
The lips of those that breathe them in the air.
What love, think'st thou, I sue so much to get?
To let you enter his unpeopled house.
me?
When my dimensions are as well compact,
lord. I'll have no more pity of his age than I
I do, I will.
Madam, here comes my lord.
I know a bank where the wild thyme blows,
That Warwick's bones may keep thine company.
I could do nothing without bidding.
She hath been fairer, madam, than she is:
Should hazard such a place as his own second
It shall be done, my sovereign, with all speed.
Envy the great nor do the low despise.
Hold little faith, though thou hast too much fear.
One of the three to share it?
Fortune speed us!
We cannot fight for love, as men may do;
Ay, ay, the cords.
For your own ladies and pale-visaged maids
Ay, full as dearly as I love myself.
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
Like damned guilty deeds to sinners' minds:
Nor never needed that I should entreat,
Tarry a little; there is something else.
Why, then, we kill all our women:
during my life. I tell thee, Ned, thou hast lost
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse, DROMIO of Syracuse, and First Merchant
Wherein this trunk was framed, and in her hand
So much unsettled: this drives me to entreat you
Stepp'd in so far that, should I wade no more,
Of a despised life closed in my breast
O'er him whom heaven created for thy ruler.
Against my near'st of life: and though I could
I'll do it in my shirt.
Ay, so I did indeed.
And give some evening music to her ear.
unlawful solicitation; if not, assure yourself I
Brother Antony,--
How goes the day with us? O, tell me, Hubert.
which is lost be not found.
Why, lords, and think you not how dangerous
silver, set with pearls, down sleeves, side sleeves,
For so much trash as may be grasped thus?
And think we think ourselves unsatisfied,
With me in your company?
shall be lopped branches, which, being dead many
you all your lands,
And you too, gentle Hero?
To me.
SCENE V. Another part of the forest.
Go we, as well as haste will suffer us,
Canst thou dispense with heaven for such an oath?
As harbingers preceding still the fates
Come, Casca, you and I will yet ere day
By my head, here come the Capulets.
Between our statures; she hath urged her height;
Plainly denouncing vengeance upon John.
Is ripe for shaking, and the powers above
To Mantua, with my letters to thy lord.
As we have seen him in the Capitol,
If I have used myself unmannerly;
Misfortune to my ventures, out of doubt
Come, come, we fear the worst; all shall be well.
Then cannot we be bought: and so, adieu;
He is my father, sir; and, sooth to say,
Asleep, my love?
When I do name him, let it be thy part
The dateless limit of thy dear exile;
This case of that huge spirit now is cold:
Take up those cords: poor ropes, you are beguiled,
Where France?
Have got the mannish crack, sing him to the ground,
Enter JULIET
Re-enter BISHOP OF ELY
But thou wilt brave me with these saucy terms?
left, till he cast bells, steeple, church, and
That which I have than, coveting for more,
Never so weary, never so in woe,
drudge, or diviner, laid claim to me, call'd me
And while I live, I'll ne'er fly from a man.
When in the world I lived, I was the world's
The way of our profession is against it:
And, in good time, here comes the sweating lord.
Were he the butcher of my son, he should
she may perhaps call him half a score knaves or so:
angry with you, if the time were convenient.
Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player
Noble Ventidius,
And happy newness, that intends old right.
But makes it much more heavy. Hector's opinion
ARIEL sings
I prithee tell me; cram's with praise, and make's
O virtuous fight,
You scarce can right me throughly then to say
Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will
And let me buy your friendly help thus far,
[Reads]  Sweet Bassanio, my ships have all
will sully: in Barbary, sir, it cannot come to so much.
next block.
Two Talbots, winged through the lither sky,
She shall be, to the happiness of England,
part at once, cues and all Pyramus enter: your cue
Peruse this letter! Nothing almost sees miracles
You have in manner with your sinful hours
And I in such a poverty of grace,
Thy state is taken for a joined-stool, thy golden
Methinks already in this civil broil
Stand by, my masters: bring him near the king;
True delight
To thy good truth and honour. Devilish Macbeth
My lord, my answer is--to Lancaster;
You are too young, too happy, and too good,
I do not like their coming. Now I think on't,
As stairs of sand, wear yet upon their chins
Your noble mother: and, as I hear, my lord,
Hath turn'd itself on me lo, here I lie,
But always hath been just and virtuous
Are you sure of that?
I would the college of the cardinals
That may be, sir, when I may be a wife.
Here, if it like your honour.
See, where he lies inhearsed in the arms
Many sharp reasons to defeat the law.
My knowing, Timon has been this lord's father,
Stay, or thou diest!
Ay, that's well known:
Sir, know you this glove?
I embrace these conditions; let us have articles
I am as mad as he,
SCENE I. A street in Westminster.
Woo't drink up eisel? eat a crocodile?
This night the siege assuredly I'll raise:
To show yourself your father's son in deed
To the latter end of a fray and the beginning of a feast
And since her time are colliers counted bright.
Welcome home, Grumio!
Who twice a-day their wither'd hands hold up
The cloak of night being pluck'd from off their backs,
The sinewy vigour of the traveller.
Power into will, will into appetite;
Abide me, if thou darest; for well I wot
Why, but he is not in this tune, is he?
Where we decreed to bury Bassianus.
The crown and comfort of my life, your favour,
Which I do owe you.
The starry welkin cover thou anon
Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave
They were villains, murderers: the will! read the will.
Your favours, the ambassadors of love;
Sir Richard Ratcliff, let me tell thee this:
That lord whose hand must take my plight shall carry
'Twas you we laughed at.
Lie all unlock'd to your occasions.
To give me now a little benefit,
more natural.
Exit, above
Which is not tomb enough and continent
The inevitable prosecution of
'O sir,' says answer, 'at your best command;
In fair round belly with good capon lined,
His lands then seized on by the conqueror:
Landlord of England art thou now, not king:
That being dead, like to the bullet's grazing,
As, though on thinking on no thought I think,
Now, for a while farewell, good Duke of York.
Nay. but his taunts.
After the inveterate hate he bears you.
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
A jealous hood, a jealous hood!
Some reasons of this double coronation
You are the king King Edward hath deposed;
To the Pedant
Fly with false aim; move the still-peering air,
The face of Caesar, they are vanished.
He smiled and said 'The better for our purpose.'
The devil take one party and his dam the other! and
Well; again.
Seest thou not, I say, what a deformed thief this
for, sure, unless he know some strain in me, that I
Turn from me, then, that noble countenance,
Revenged!
By the way we met
I pray you, let me look upon the bond.
When they go from Achilles: shall the proud lord
Shall I do any good, thinkest thou? shall I not lose my suit?
I prithee, call me. Sleep hath seized me wholly
Arm, arm, my lord;--Rome never had more cause.
DON
where you shall hear us confer of this, and by an
Give me your hand.
But, soft! company is coming here.
Marry, here's grace and a cod-piece; that's a wise
And Phoebus 'gins arise,
Did my heart love till now? forswear it, sight!
to be delivered as far as Charing-cross.
And I was going to your lodging, Cassio.
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
That, Britain, I have kill'd thy mistress; peace!
By all the operation of the orbs
My king is tangled in affection to
With no less honour to the Antiates
Why in this woolvish toge should I stand here,
'Tis thought the old man and his sons were angels.
From monster's view, and all things shall be peace.
A Veronesa; Michael Cassio,
My liege, in Kent the Guildfords are in arms;
Hold you there: farewell.
Should raise so great a power without his leave,
A gentleman of Tyre; my name, Pericles;
in reputation and profit, was better both ways.
Thou art up-roused by some distemperature;
Nor made to court an amorous looking-glass;
You are much more attask'd for want of wisdom
Hath caused to belch up you; and on this island
and fathers declining, the father should be as
She's, like a liar, gone to burning hell:
Speak of Mortimer!
After your highness had reproved the duke
Not all these, laid in bed majestical,
Say what thou canst, I'll go along with thee.
Not I.
Nor mine, my lord: Cressid was here but now.
Come, for the third, Laertes: you but dally;
Master Froth here, this very man, having eaten the
He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
That flies i' the purer air!
And rock the ground whereon these sleepers be.
And now, forsooth, takes on him to reform
In marriage-pleasures play-fellow:
That you will wonder what hath fortuned.
Enter PERICLES
Uncle, my brother mocks both you and me;
In the rare semblance that I loved it first.
I would desires.
In the habiliments of the goddess Isis
Help, help, help!
Ay, my lord.
her music o' mornings; they say it will penetrate.
When that which makes me bend makes the king bow,
Enter BORACHIO and CONRADE
I' the body of the weal; and now, arriving
Pass'd over to the end they were created,
Thou art not honest; and the gods will plague thee,
Why will you kill me?
the pantry, and every thing in extremity. I must
Will have a wild trick of his ancestors.
Like rivers of remorse and innocency.
What, Curio?
In earnest, shall I say?
When it should move you to attend me most,
The fair, the chaste and unexpressive she.
Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords
Lead us from hence, where we may leisurely
In Margaret's battle at Saint Alban's slain?
it up. Fellow kings, I tell you that that Lord Say
Some certain edicts and some strait decrees
Why I do trifle thus with his despair
To-morrow, if you please to speak with me,
Where words are scarce, they are seldom spent in vain,
SCENE II. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
Bear her this jewel, pledge of my affection.
A sceptre snatch'd with an unruly hand
Back do I toss these treasons to thy head;
His health was never better worth than now.
Or pricket sore, or else sorel; the people fall a-hooting.
And shape of likelihood, the news was told;
To murder her I married.
Call her again.
I love your son.
It carries a brave form. But 'tis a spirit.
I will tell truth; by grace itself I swear.
Yea, an 'twere a thousand pound more than 'tis; for
well that die in a battle; for how can they
arrant a villain and a Jacksauce, as ever his black
Whose hot incursions and great name in arms
My lord, your loving nephew now is come.
My ears are stopt and cannot hear good news,
No more o' that;
That he is worshipp'd in a baser temple
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and Attendants
So vile a thing as Caesar! But, O grief,
Yes, by Saint Anne, do I. A good matter, surely:
I never did like molestation view
Merry, amen. I will, sir, I will.
Angels are bright still, though the brightest fell;
According to the weight and worthiness.
Both by the Syracusians and ourselves,
I will withdraw: but this intrusion shall
done; at such and such a sconce, at such a breach,
No, some of it is for my child's father. O, how
will, if you should refuse to accept him.
My hat to a halfpenny, Pompey proves the best Worthy.
We are beastly, subtle as the fox for prey,
He seems to be of great authority: close with him,
their particular functions and wonder at him. I
Poison hath residence and medicine power:
Doth but usurp the sacred name of knight,
From high to low throughout, that whoso please
Flourish
The main consents are had; and here we'll stay
Ha!
I' the way of flattery further.
Hast made thine enemies?
The king had cut off my head with my brother's.
Exeunt
To my grief, I am
To who shall find them.
CARDINAL
Enter a Captain
She shall, she shall.
Grows elder now and cares it be not done.
First, hear me speak.
Enter CLEOMENES and DION
I will confess she was not Edward's daughter.
Who, much enforced, shows a hasty spark,
Be like a king and show my sail of greatness
And spur thee on with full as many lies
Scratches with briers,
At no time broke my faith, would not betray
For but a month ago I went from hence,
When thou didst bower the spirit of a fiend
Grace and remembrance be to you both,
As if a man were author of himself
I think verily he had been hanged for't; sure as I
i' the church, I would have swinged him, or he
Arm'd, my lord.
I know this cannot be.
How fares thy mistress?
I thought it was a fault, but knew it not;
forsworn his company hourly any time this two and
his wounds and tell us his deeds, we are to put our
Do: I'll take the sacrament on't, how and which way you will.
Hearing thy mildness praised in every town,
May be he will not touch young Arthur's life,
Slain by his servant, going to put out
Why are you sequester'd from all your train,
Say that the emperor requests a parley
'Tis our hope, sir,
[Reads]  I have sent you a daughter-in-law: she hath
Must by the hungry now be fed upon:
I will the banner from a trumpet take,
Shall make me live. Who knows himself a braggart,
To no sight but thine and mine, invisible
This murderous shaft that's shot
Follow, I pray you.
Many, nay, almost any.
These banish'd men that I have kept withal
Why, he has three thousand ducats a year.
And never, since the middle summer's spring,
To accuse this worthy man, but, in foul mouth
If by strong hand you offer to break in
To bear such idleness so near the heart
When I have slain thee with my proper hand,
She will a handmaid be to his desires,
And like a dog that is compell'd to fight,
That's paragon'd o' the world.
What is your will that I shall do with this?
As not a soldier of this season's stamp
What's o'clock, Francis?
What error drives our eyes and ears amiss?
Had thy brethren here, their lives and thine
Simple, plain Clarence! I do love thee so,
You're much deceived: in nothing am I changed
Vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand,
From me do back receive the flour of all,
then another fault in the semblance of a fowl; think
an old cloak makes a new jerkin; a withered
And therefore yet relent, and save my life.
Exit
No, not to live. O nation miserable,
plain-song of it.
The chafed boar, the mountain lioness,
But, had it been the brother of my blood,
Was ever king that joy'd an earthly throne,
Mistress Page at the door, sweating and blowing and
This is a dreadful sentence.
Wise! why, no question but he was.
mistress is one, and I am her fool. When men come
SONG.
Would I were young for your sake, Mistress Anne!
And when the flight is made to one so dear,
ACT II
Here is a man--but 'tis before his face;
And happier much by his affliction made.
to your lips? would they were clyster-pipes for your sake!
To stop his wounds, lest he do bleed to death.
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun.
adventurously. I must stay with the lackeys, with
Which simpleness and merit purchaseth.
And strong encounter of my amorous tale:
Of love?
And that most venerable man which I
Take heed of perjury; thou art on thy deathbed.
As is the morn-dew on the myrtle-leaf
Such mortal drugs I have; but Mantua's law
That stay his cure: their malady convinces
For my poor son.
But would it please thee, good Andronicus,
They bore him barefaced on the bier;
thought her spirit had been invincible against all
beguile the supposition of that lascivious young boy
But till this afternoon his passion
Thanks, good my countryman.
Which we will niggard with a little rest.
And coughing drowns the parson's saw
Then she bears some breadth?
Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood
him a present! give him a halter: I am famished in
Soft! here comes sleeve, and t'other.
But I might see young Cupid's fiery shaft
Thy fifty yet doth double five and twenty,
Seeing those beads of sorrow stand in thine,
Thou know'st, being stopp'd, impatiently doth rage;
That you resolved to effect.
To your so infinite loss, so in our trifles
Even for an egg-shell. Rightly to be great
But if that I am I, then well I know
You look but on the outside of this work.
Go thou to Richard, and good angels guard thee!
I do serve you in this business.
Under the cool shade of a sycamore
Meaning the king at Pomfret. Come, let's go:
And rob in the behalf of charity.
If thou art changed to aught, 'tis to an ass.
Upon mine honour, thou shalt marry her.
With all the applause and clamour of the host,
Keep Hector company an hour or two.
Nor none that live, I hope.
Are you companion to the Count Rousillon?
Hearing of this.
A tomb, wherein his corpse shall be interr'd:
And now behold the meaning.
I fear me, it will make me scandalized.
As much as he deserves! Pause there, Morocco,
Enter SIMONIDES, THAISA, Lords, Attendants, and Knights, from tilting
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  Will Caesar weep?
break their hearts but they will effect. God be
Exit Chamberlain, attended. All rise, and tables removed
Out of my files, his projects to accomplish,
He's worth no more
She may more suitors have and me for one.
Had it the ability of life to thank you:
Now, by Apollo,--
What am I, sir! nay, what are you, sir? O immortal
An't please your honour, players
wet me once, and the wind to make me chatter; when
but yet no coward, Hal.
Have miserable, mad, mistaking eyes.
And lived by looking on his images:
Thy master now lies thinking in his bed
over-lusty at legs, then he wears wooden
Or if I might buffet for my love, or bound my horse
Most dignifies the haver: if it be,
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
Withdrew me from the odds of multitude:
Upbraided me about the rose I wear;
There, when my maiden priests are met together,
He needs not; it is no hidden virtue in him.
She sung, and made the night-bird mute,
It shall be still thy true love's recompense:
That sir which serves and seeks for gain,
Spur them to ruthful work, rein them from ruth.
Exit
The way is but short: away!
How I have govern'd our determined jest?
Even on that altar where we swore to you
A credulous father! and a brother noble,
It holds his estimate and dignity
And will o'erreach them in their own devices:
Exit the BASTARD
And tugg'd for life and was by strength subdued:
To save this brat's life?
To each incensed will. I would your highness
And this same needy man must sell it me.
Exit
Pray, give me favour, sir. This cunning cardinal
Re-enter OTHELLO and Attendants
We waste our lights in vain, like lamps by day.
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
Clock striketh
put them on first in Afric, at the marriage of
O, she's warm!
The crown will find an heir: great Alexander
Devils soonest tempt, resembling spirits of light.
O brave monster! Lead the way.
If thou wert my fool, nuncle, I'ld have thee beaten
Piercing our Romans: then, valiant Titus, take
We should not, when the blood was cool,
My father's of a better nature, sir,
But you say she's honest.
And you yourself shall steer the happy helm.
Being once perfected how to grant suits,
To old Free-town, our common judgment-place.
Would men observingly distil it out.
I had thought to have yerk'd him here under the ribs.
You still wrangle with her, Boyet, and she strikes
Why, will shall break it; will and nothing else.
not tainted! And why meet him at the gates, and
Your voices: for your voices I have fought;
To be thus jaded by a piece of scarlet,
O, he hath drawn my picture in his letter!
I saw the man to-day, if man he be.
man and a fool.
Madam, you are call'd back.
Speak, Iachimo: I had you down and might
You cannot but forbear to murder me:
And yet I wish but for the thing I have:
There, gentle Hermia, may I marry thee;
I take some joy to say you are, because I would be
A man in much esteem with the king, and truly
As or by oath remove or counsel shake
Though the nature of our quarrel yet never brooked
I am ignorant in what I am commanded.
Being destined to a drier death on shore.
glory is to subdue men. Adieu, valour! rust rapier!
Endured all weathers.
Sufficeth that I have maintains my state
word to the action; with this special o'erstep not
As I by thine a wife: this is a match,
We see the wind sit sore upon our sails,
Would through the airy region stream so bright
The great part of my comfort, gone; my queen
fingers goes not with me.
The heaven such grace did lend her,
this change of thoughts,
Like empty purses pick'd; and his poor self,
Accords not with the sadness of my suit:
Exit Moonshine
SCENE II. A public road near Coventry.
flatterer: he that beguiled you in a plain
An't please your majesty, a rascal that swaggered
Save him, save him!
When in the streets he meets such golden gifts.
grange, resides this dejected Mariana. At that
He, sir.
And then they call'd me foul adulteress,
Than to suspicion.
For she is changed, as she had never been.
Enter a Serving-man
They have left their viands behind; for we have stomachs.
down an ass! But, masters, remember that I am an
Even so?
And tell me, noble Diomed, faith, tell me true,
But a trifle neither, in good faith, if the learned
Keep Stephen Langton, chosen archbishop
Well, I do so.
The practise of it lives in John the bastard,
be.
Whilst ours was blurted at and held a malkin
Awake! what, ho, Brabantio! thieves! thieves! thieves!
Happiest of all is that her gentle spirit
This music crept by me upon the waters,
pence apiece of Yead Miller, by these gloves.
In purity of manhood stand upright,
So, thanks to all at once and to each one,
Do love, prize, honour you.
Got's will, and his passion of my heart! I had as
Older in practise, abler than yourself
To RICHMOND
Therefore I beat thee.
I shall take it, sir: we have used our throats in Egypt.
And bid him come and banquet at thy house;
And grant, as Timon grows, his hate may grow
That, for the health and physic of our right,
Launcelot, father; for the young gentleman,
Confirm the crown to me and to mine heirs,
Were fit for thee to use as they to claim,
Than ever thou lovedst Cassius.
Come, let us sup betimes, that afterwards
Exeunt
it into your pocket? the quality of nothing hath
Say, say, who gave it thee?
Marry, and shall, and very willingly.
as it were, mean mischief and break a foul gap into
'Tis virtue that doth make them most admired;
You that durst swear at your mistress Bianca
and, for mine own part, I have not a case of lives:
ACT II
The very instant that I saw you, did
Do use you for my fool and chat with you,
Lo, now, lo!
Let him, my son: he shall not need to grieve
Besides, this place is famous for the creatures
To see't mine eyes are blasted.
In peace and honour rest you here, my sons!
Amongst the fairest breeders of our clime:
Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard,
The bug which you would fright me with I seek.
Therefore I shall beseech you, if you please
Served well for Rome,--
Doth, like a poisonous mineral, gnaw my inwards;
From thence the sauce to meat is ceremony;
red-faced; by the means whereof a' faces it out, but
I'll pheeze you, in faith.
[To BIANCA]  What, look you pale? O, bear him out
What studied torments, tyrant, hast for me?
river; but 'tis all one, 'tis alike as my fingers is
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply:
requests to thy friend.
Be these sad signs confirmers of thy words?
More man? plague, plague!
How soon this mightiness meets misery:
Exit
For in this sin he is as deep as I.
O, well did he become that lion's robe
will have it as it ought to be, you must allow Vox.
Out-faced infant state and done a rape
I would you would make use of that good wisdom,
Take my cap, Jupiter, and I thank thee. Hoo!
As I am truly given to understand,
Holding thine ear close to the hollow ground;
Of King Polixenes, it should here be laid,
And frustrate his proud will.
Unless for that, my liege, I cannot guess.
A sweeter and a lovelier gentleman,
Varro's Servant	I fear it.
strikes him into melancholy; and then there's a
My lord and master loves you: O, such love
That never slept a quiet hour with thee,
These vows are Hermia's: will you give her o'er?
I am very glad to see you. Good even, sir.
My twelve months are expired, and Tyrus stands
Dost dialogue with thy shadow?
Enter a Father that has killed his son, bringing in the body
To fight for and maintain!
A persecutor, I am sure, thou art:
If you shall chance, Camillo, to visit Bohemia, on
overcame, three. Who came? the king: why did he
With this young prince.
[Striking her]  Devil!
The boy gives warning something doth approach.
Of malady of France;
With a true heart
Cassio, Cassio!
Every man here's so. What would he have borrowed of
To have the touches dearest prized.
Will bring me to consider that which may
Does reason our petition with more strength
will entertain Bardolph; he shall draw, he shall
Even make me wild: O slave, of no more trust
Gave him their heirs, as pages follow'd him
Why, then, lead on. O, that a man might know
A soldier, by the honour-giving hand
And cannot help the noble chevalier:
Somerset, we'll see thee sent away.
thou thimble,
Michael, good night: to-morrow with your earliest
To that which thou shalt hear of me anon.
that my husband saw this letter! it would give
Beauty is bought by judgement of the eye,
'Tis most certain.
Here many sink, yet those which see them fall
Commend me to your niece.
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
Discomfort swells. Mark, king of Scotland, mark:
in the fountain, and I will do that when you are
Or let me lose the fashion of a man!
You said you would believe me;
dull tribunes,
What boded this, but well forewarning wind
Unless the Dauphin be in presence here,
To follow this fair corse unto her grave:
Slave, I have set my life upon a cast,
Come, night; come, Romeo; come, thou day in night;
Now, herald, are the dead number'd?
This is a sleepy tune. O murderous slumber,
And cherish factions: 'tis inferr'd to us,
Exeunt LUCIUS and MARCUS
With oily painting. Shall I draw the curtain?
The widow likes it not, for she looks very sad.
Therefore take with thee my most heavy curse;
DON
Thou shalt have none, Rousillon, none in France;
Trow you whither I am going? To Baptista Minola.
Lear's shadow.
Now, sir, 'thought is free:' I pray you, bring
More than with parting from my lord the king.
And shall, sir; give's your hand.
Most brisky juvenal and eke most lovely Jew,
As breath into the wind. Would they had stay'd!
Sir Thurio, fear not but that she will love you,
Is gone with her along, and I must after,
of the benefit defends the deceit from reproof.
will predominate over the peasant, and thou shalt
There should be one amongst 'em, by his person,
Enter young LUCIUS, and LAVINIA running after him,  and the boy flies from her, with books under his arm. Then enter TITUS and MARCUS
persuaded I will marry her, out of her own love and
This chain you had of me; can you deny it?
knock, knock! Who's there, i' the name of
So be gone: you are sped.
Three things that women highly hold in hate.
Sirs, help our uncle to convey him in.
Bowing his head against the sleepy mount
Whose souls are not corrupted as 'tis thought.
I tremble stiff with fear: but if there be
It is enough you know; and it is fit,
Out of my way, unless he bid 'em; but
heart of his obedience. I dare pawn down my life
I cannot tell what you and other men
Good sir, adieu.
A prince, Miranda; I do think, a king;
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom:
Thank you. Wondrous heavy.
Exeunt
Come, sir, I know what I know.
That there are unicorns, that in Arabia
As Dian's visage, is now begrimed and black
Saw you my daughter?
We need no more of your advice: the matter,
This is not altogether fool, my lord.
Against the Moor: for, I do know, the state,
SCENE III. The same.
And not dismember Caesar! But, alas,
I am the governor of this place you lie before.
Despairing of his own arm's fortitude,
Enter Citizens
Suffolk, arise. Welcome, Queen Margaret:
Prithee, peace.
More monstrous standing by: whereof I reckon
Yea, my lord; I thank it, poor fool, it keeps on
What is, my lord?
If e'er again I meet him beard to beard,
Delay this marriage for a month, a week;
Plucking the entrails of an offering forth,
Which he did wave against my throat, I have ta'en
As children from a bear, the Volsces shunning him:
What, is Horatio there?
Cease to persuade, my loving Proteus:
protest, I have dealt most directly in thy affair.
To bed, to bed! there's knocking at the gate:
Striving to make an ugly deed look fair:
O, let me stay,
No, gracious lord, except I cannot do it.
By me entreats, great lord, thou wouldst vouchsafe
And for dissension, who preferreth peace
Pindarus,
A hundred marks, my Kate does put her down.
to you.	Your unfortunate son,
To follow as it draws! I'll to my brother:
In peril of precipitation
of his own scorn by failing in love: and such a man
the dukes he values most; for equalities are so
Importing health and graveness. Two months since,
And kiss'd it, madam.
Nor will do none to-morrow: he will keep that good name still.
But, since you make your pleasure of your pains,
thy hand to laugh a little.
The cruelty and envy of the people,
Re-enter two of the Citizens
Who, looking for adventures in the world,
The knave turns fool that runs away;
Abate thy rage, great duke!
To see you ta'en from liberty, to look on
I do not know the man I should avoid
Angelo,
Exeunt
And not upon your maid.
Because we thought ourself thy lawful king:
See, how the ugly wench doth bend her brows,
That have no use for trusting. If your master
He has no children. All my pretty ones?
Run not before mine honour, nor my lusts
If she unmask her beauty to the moon:
Not without fair reward.
If ever lady wrong'd her lord so much,
From so divine a temple, to commix
is deceived, or Sir John.
His reasons with his body.
I'll apply
If without peril it be possible,
And bid thy ceremony give thee cure!
For, sure, there's no converting of 'em: now
Or how stolen from the dead.
end of our show.
And if mine eyes can wound, now let them kill thee:
but his nose is executed and his fire's out.
Our instruments to melancholy bells,
Come, other sorts offend as well as we.
Neither.
Very obedient. Proceed you in your tears.
And gentlemen of Italy, most willing spirits,
I care no more for than I do for heaven,
To make the perfect period of this peace.
Ay, but he's dead: off with the traitor's head,
true-bred cowards as ever turned back; and for the
The gods throw stones of sulphur on me, if
Off with his head, and set it on York gates;
The one the other poison'd for my sake,
Hark, hark! the lark at heaven's gate sings,
Awaked the sleeping rheum, and so by chance
My heavy burden ne'er delivered.
You'll part away disgraced.
What noise is here?
Extended or contracted all proportions
Once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more;
Enter GOWER
hundred years.
Well, we leave that to the proof.
O Agamemnon, let it not be so!
Which now came from him.
And look to have it yielded with all willingness.
Derive this; come.
Of that black name, Edward, Black Prince of Wales;
Ah, thou spell! Avaunt!
'Poor deer,' quoth he, 'thou makest a testament
But we will presently provide for them.
As to a lover's bed. Come, then; and, Eros,
Justice! the law! my ducats, and my daughter!
I'll break a custom. Is he yet possess'd
yet our horse not packed. What, ostler!
upon one wooer, another knocks at the door.
That love should of a sudden take such hold?
Go bear this letter to Lord John of Lancaster, to my
My husband and my lord, my lord and husband;
And, on my trust, a man that never yet
And she died singing it: that song to-night
Have you importuned her to such a purpose?
Will make but little for his benefit.
Now sir, the sound that tells what hour it is
O, make them joyful, grant their lawful suit!
To be our regent in these parts of France:
A prize! a prize!
Orlando doth commend him to you both,
Your heart is full of something that does take
To tell the secrets of my prison-house,
This cannot be Hector.
I tell you what mine authors say:
Thou shalt not need. England, I will fall from thee.
An if the wind blow any way from shore,
for thy daughters as thou canst tell in a year.
Or whether 'twas report of her success;
Madam, if your heart be so obdurate,
Love's reason's without reason: the bier at door,
That columbine.
He;
And labour shall refresh itself with hope,
fortune of us that are the moon's men doth ebb and
Did share it.
What can go well, when we have run so ill?
He's married, madam.
It is Posthumus' hand; I know't. Sirrah, if thou
A charge, Lord York, that I will see perform'd.
Exeunt CLOTEN and First Lord
looked sadly, it was for want of money: and now you
Weigh'd between loathness and obedience, at
With words that in an honest suit might move.
Now sit we close about this taper here,
To lift shrewd steel against our golden crown,
As thou didst leave it.
Peace, break thee off; look, where it comes again!
When midnight comes, knock at my chamber-window:
Alack the day, she's dead, she's dead, she's dead!
Blind fear, that seeing reason leads, finds safer
will I frame and make fit for his attempt. If you
It would have madded me: what shall I do
If we would have you.
Exit with Soldiers
And I shall here abide the hourly shot
humour as well as waiting in the court, I can tell
Before this out-dared dastard? Ere my tongue
Let not her penance exceed the king's commission.
nights' watchings.
To wail the dimming of our shining star;
Two ships from far making amain to us,
To gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom
A bump as big as a young cockerel's stone;
Good morrow, sweet Hal. What says Monsieur Remorse?
instant, you may, when you hear no more words of
A halter, soldiers! hang him on this tree.
Yet seek my father's love; still seek it, sir:
When you caught hurt in parting two that fought:
In Hector's wrath.
You are a very simplicity 'oman: I pray you peace.
Looking awry upon your lord's departure,
Know him in us, that here hold up his right.
find when he comes home. But what talk I of this?
That hath beside well in his person wrought
Dost thou affect her, Claudio?
If any such be here--as God forbid!--
Music within
me: I'll tell you strange things of this knave
Yet in the number I do know but one
An ass's nole I fixed on his head:
ANTIPHOLUS
What an arm he has! he turned me about with his
Re-enter PETRUCHIO
Yet, God before, tell him we will come on,
Why should we in our peevish opposition
with obscured lights; which, at the very instant of
RICHARD
They converse apart
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather,
Our bruised arms hung up for monuments;
But yet we want a colour for his death:
Thou damned and luxurious mountain goat,
Well have you heard, but something hard of hearing:
Pale or red?
course; where, if you violently proceed against
What fire is in mine ears? Can this be true?
You may my glories and my state depose,
Advantage feeds him fat, while men delay.
And if he be not fought withal, my lord,
'Tis a good constraint of fortune it belches upon us.
I yet beseech your majesty,--
Leave your prabbles, 'oman. What is the focative
Proud scornful boy, unworthy this good gift;
'Tis time; descend; be stone no more; approach;
Thou hast a servant named Lucilius.
comparison--had been something too fair and too good
I would Poison that vile rascal.
labouring men; and therefore should we be
If so, then be not tongue-tied: go with me.
To her, whose state is such that cannot choose
and I know not what use to put her to but to make a
Stifle the villain whose unstanched thirst
thy fat woman. Let her descend, bully, let her
Forgive me, country, and sweet countrymen,
Heaven, be thou gracious to none alive,
Comfort's in heaven; and we are on the earth,
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
withal, that either you might stay him from his
Put your dread pleasures more into command
What early tongue so sweet saluteth me?
Long withering out a young man revenue.
No more do yours: your virtues, gentle master,
Yet livest thou, Salisbury? though thy speech doth fail,
And when fair Cressid comes into my thoughts,--
But this I know, they have demean'd themselves
Caesar!
God be with you, sir; I will.
What is in Silvia's face, but I may spy
O poverty in wit, kingly-poor flout!
Dies
But that I do not.
Even to the next willow, about your own business,
Exeunt
I scarce can speak to thank you for myself.
For both our sakes, I would that word were true.
Now, say, Chatillon, what would France with us?
To wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor:
Must bide the touch; for, sir, at Shrewsbury,
Albeit my wrongs might make one wiser mad.
setting thy knighthood aside, thou art a knave to
To be but mirth and laughter to his Brutus,
Enter FALSTAFF, BARDOLPH, NYM, and PISTOL
More slavish did I ne'er than answering
Think, my lord!
Such gain the cap of him that makes 'em fine,
By you being pardon'd, we commit no crime
Let me love him for that, and do you love him
An yet, for all his wings, the fool was drown'd.
Be gone, I say: the gods have heard me swear.
Sir, we have all
now o'er-reaches; one that would circumvent God,
Look, if it please you, on this man condemn'd,
As so defend thee heaven and thy valour!
Not at all, good lady:
Madam, we did: he desires to make atonement
That's he indeed.
poor duke's officers; but truly, for mine own part,
Ay, come; quick.
water, though I seem to drown her remembrance again with more.
Thou must be gone, wench, thou must be gone; thou
the judgment-day.
O, did you so? And do you remember what you said of the duke?
Gentle, hear me:
[To TROILUS]  My well-famed lord of Troy, no
Beyond what can be valued, rich or rare;
I know not, madam.
Stay, go, do what you will, the like do I;
To take her by the hand and bid her go,
He left me proudly, as unworthy fight.
With all the virtues that attend the good,
Thy school-days frightful, desperate, wild, and furious,
A most toad-spotted traitor. Say thou 'No,'
vaillant, et tres distingue seigneur d'Angleterre.
Ambitions, covetings, change of prides, disdain,
I mean, in bearing weight of government,
The matter's in my head and in my heart:
I speak not like a dotard nor a fool,
Makes his approaches to the port of Rome:
I have.
But life itself, my wife, and all the world,
An if an angel should have come to me
What's dumb in show I'll plain with speech.
And woo your own destruction.
Here, take this purse, thou whom the heavens' plagues
The nobles in great earnestness are going
Sly, old Sly's son of Burtonheath, by birth a
O Lord, they fight! I will go call the watch.
Besides, Antonio certified the duke
A shrewd turn, and he is your friend for ever.'
And bloody England into England gone,
Of good old Abraham! Lords appellants,
Away, then! I am lock'd in one of them:
Content. What is the wager?
Till you know better how to handle it.
Bear our hack'd targets like the men that owe them:
son of a whore fight for a whore, he tempts judgment:
Lord Clifford and Lord Stafford, all abreast,
of work; which not to have been blest withal would
Exeunt
Can tell so much: shall Banquo's issue ever
those that are married already, all but one, shall
Her shall you hear disproved to her eyes,
Your face, my thane, is as a book where men
They pass over the stage in order and state
'Tis past the hour, sir, that Sir Hugh promised to meet.
you from dishonour in doing it.
Taste your legs, sir; put them to motion.
A sure destruction.
As I descended?
I prithee, speak to me as to thy thinkings,
instrument and play false strains upon thee! not to
My man's abode where I did leave him: he
Grief fills the room up of my absent child,
Of this remove.
Pray you, let Cassio be received again.
This was a goodly person,
Hear you the news abroad?
And with his arms outstretch'd, as he would fly,
For God's sake, lords, convey my tristful queen;
For henceforth of poor Claudio.
I shall be loved when I am lack'd. Nay, mother.
Would you were half so honest!
And makest me call what I intend to do
coxcomb? in your own conscience, now?
From the dejected state wherein he is,
What, art thou angry, Pandarus? what, with me?
He does confess he feels himself distracted;
By Jove, I'll play the hunter for thy life
Would I had known no more! but she must die,
He is as worthy for an empress' love
God's mother deigned to appear to me
our absence makes us unthrifty to our knowledge.
In thee there is not half an hour of life;
Such wind as scatters young men through the world,
Exit Peto
Yes, so please your majesty. I did go between them,
Was that it was, for not being such a smile;
Rises
length again, tarry: but away! go to; have you
Will use you nobly and your followers.
All hail, Macbeth, thou shalt be king hereafter!
You are a saucy boy: is't so, indeed?
Dobbin my fill-horse has on his tail.
Must give my tendence to.
unseasonably. He was furnished like a hunter.
With all his threatening band of Typhon's brood,
Kneels
Or lose myself in dotage.
'Clarence is come; false, fleeting, perjured Clarence,
Will he be satisfied.
And suffer'd him to go displeased away;
Go in, Bianca:
Come; fear you not: good counsellors lack no
Marry, that, I think, be young Petrucio.
Not in the power on't: so our leader's led,
What party I do follow.
Then afterward up higher: but there is
And how like you this shepherd's life, Master Touchstone?
What man dare, I dare:
more; for look, where my abridgement comes.
For our affairs in hand: if that come short,
The messengers of Venice stay the meat;
please you to abrogate scurrility.
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway;
Stealing her soul with many vows of faith
Exit RODERIGO
A victor shall be known? will you the knights
With such a suffering, such a deadly life,
As Falstaff, she and I, are newly met,
And yet your beards forbid me to interpret
Wilt thou ever be a foul-mouthed and calumnious knave?
Amongst the rarest of good ones,--sitting sadly,
Yet I have faced it with a card of ten.
And if it please you, so; if not, why, so.
Who craves to come aboard. What is your will?
No, lad; teach me.
And that's the dearest grace it renders you,--
The dust on antique time would lie unswept,
what's thyself?
one Nym, sir, that beguiled him of a chain, had the
That I have blown this coal: I do deny it:
strange fellow, my lord, that so confidently seems
Where should I lose my tongue?
I long that we were safe and sound aboard.
It is as sure as you are Roderigo,
Lord Stafford's death.
Shall this our lofty scene be acted over
With sands that will not bear your enemies' boats,
That said'st I begg'd the empire at thy hands.
Exeunt
I know thy errand, I will go with thee:
affirmation--his to be more fair, virtuous, wise,
Thou pardon me my wrongs. But how should Prospero
Indeed! ay, indeed: discern'st thou aught in that?
Improvident soldiers! had your watch been good,
maggots: your fat king and your lean beggar is but
Edward, her lord, whom I, some three months since,
For mine own part,
I am in the favour of Margaret, the waiting
That which is now a horse, even with a thought
By this encompassment and drift of question
house; charged me, on pain of their perpetual
By mingling them with us, the honour'd number,
And to sun's parching heat display'd my cheeks,
I know no answer.
Much like to you, for you have just his bleat.
Enough to purchase what you have made known.
And, in good time! now will we break with him.
I am, my lord, a wretched Florentine,
While he did bear my countenance in the town;
To whom God will, there be the victory!
Proceed in justice, which shall have due course,
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
Would you enforce me to a world of care?
I will be master of what is mine own:
Within this bosom never enter'd yet
Thy full supremacy thou knew'st, and that
Come on, sir.
As we do in our quality much want--
And make 'em reel before 'em. No man living
Have I not in my time heard lions roar?
Your differences shall all rest under gage
Now, in good sadness, son Petruchio,
My brother Gloucester, plain well-meaning soul,
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
A very honest-hearted fellow, and as poor as the king.
What I have written to you?
I am gone for ever.
And told me Hubert should put out mine eyes,
Such tricks hath strong imagination,
my bounty further.
How fares your majesty?
Art thou Timandra?
Shall be for me; and, to requite you further,
Exeunt PRINCESS and train
I have deliver'd to Lord Angelo,
And fawn on rage with base humility,
Were I alone to pass the difficulties
Believe not so.
a' bade me lay more clothes on his feet: I put my
And doth deserve a coronet of gold.
Lucius, all hail, Rome's royal emperor!
The name of Prosper: it did bass my trespass.
From the dead blow of it. And you, enchantment.--
Cannot attain it, why, then,--hark you hither!
Most putrefied core, so fair without,
Look to her, Moor, if thou hast eyes to see:
It will be light, my lord, that you may bear it
In bringing them to civil discipline,
'Tis better using France than trusting France:
Jove knows what man thou mightst have made; but I,
All the charactery of my sad brows:
Fetch the will hither, and we shall determine
Shall wound my honour with such feeble wrong,
To leave the city and commit yourself
And bow'd his eminent top to their low ranks,
contradiction, I have heard that.
Of my huge sorrows! Better I were distract:
Such as he is, full of regard and honour.
The heavens with that we have in hand are angry
[Aside to SIMPLE]  Are you avised o' that? you
your full time of imprisonment and your deliverance
Kissing her
Good things will strive to dwell with't.
O ye immortal gods!
This is true;
Ay me, it is my husband! Witness you,
He were created knight for his good service.
The back is sacrifice to the load. They say
Thou art a fool: she robs thee of thy name;
dry basting.
See how the blood is settled in his face.
love keep little company together now-a-days; the
tell my daughter I would speak with her.
Why, of mankind.
Search every acre in the high-grown field,
Abuse him to the Moor in the rank garb--
Why do you say 'thwack our general '?
Ah, boy, if any life be left in thee,
I will do so. But, look you, Cassius,
That seeks dispatch by day.
They mean to warn us at Philippi here,
I am glad on't; 'tis a worthy governor.
ready to crack with impatience. Who says this is
Of that and all the progress, more or less,
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
As is the sucking lamb or harmless dove:
Why, what a pox have I to do with my hostess of the tavern?
Your wisdom best shall think.
That has been blue, but not her eyebrows.
And spurn in pieces posts of adamant:
O, go to. Well, well,
I never knew
Methinks I am a prophet new inspired
How called you the man you speak of, madam?
As Priam is in Ilion.
To see me first, as I have now. Pisanio! man!
Who made the Dauphin and the French to stoop
Have here bereft my brother of his life.
It makes the course of thoughts to fetch about,
Whose circling shadows kings have sought to sleep in,
To make your speed to Dover, you shall find
Give him this letter; do it secretly;
Exeunt Messenger and certain Lords
I therein do forget.
Let it presage the ruin of your love
The incensing relics of it: let him approach,
[Reads]  'Imprimis, a loose-bodied gown:'
Until you see her die again; for then
By his loved mansionry, that the heaven's breath
To forfeit all your goods, lands, tenements,
Thou liest, abhorred tyrant; with my sword
'This must be so.' We pray you, throw to earth
promise of his life and in the highest compulsion of
Whether thou best he or no,
Oft have I heard of sanctuary men;
Exit ROBIN
explication; facere, as it were, replication, or
A murder, which I thought a sacrifice:
The rest o' the island.
Who had but newly entertain'd revenge,
What! lack I credit?
accuseth him; he cannot swear, but it cheques him;
We'll quickly hoise Duke Humphrey from his seat.
Where doth the world thrust forth a vanity--
To keep his bed of blackness unlaid ope,
You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of
For thou are pleasant, gamesome, passing courteous,
Nay, Gloucester, know that thou art come too soon,
The kingly-crowned head, the vigilant eye,
Why, sir, you know this is your wedding-day:
To face the garment of rebellion
Than answer my waked wrath!
I have an interest in your hate's proceeding,
Some dungeon.
And that his lady mourns at his disease:
he's a better woodman than thou takest him for.
On what I hate I feed not.
I will go meet the ladies. This Volumnia
Have you collected them by tribes?
Dream of impediment! Let me have thy hand:
'Tis ready, sir, here in the porch.
But once a-day, it would unclog my heart
He that dies pays all debts: I defy thee. Mercy upon us!
A pox on him, he's a cat still.
Then I will give you the serving-creature.
And be my heart an ever-burning hell!
In thy uprightness and integrity,
Go to, we pardon thee: therefore, in brief,
Which still should go with Antony.
Decline your head: this kiss, if it durst speak,
them prepare dinner.
You speak this to fetch me in, my lord.
To any syllable that made love to you.
The tevil and his tam! what phrase is this, 'He
Make it a darling like your precious eye;
That liked, but had a rougher task in hand
reasonable demands.
Being ordain'd his special governor,
Such shapes, such gesture and such sound, expressing,
And yet he hath given me satisfying reasons:
His rash fierce blaze of riot cannot last,
heating of the oven and the baking; nay, you must
Or what you will command me will I do,
And therewithal to win me, if you please,
To Agamemnon: go we to him straight.
entreat you,--not to fear, not to tremble: my life
Exeunt
And given me notice of their villanies.
A hearty welcome.
The good gods preserve you!
ensnare as great a fly as Cassio. Ay, smile upon
That eyeless head of thine was first framed flesh
Which, when it bites and blows upon my body,
What, are they children? who maintains 'em? how are
How shall we then dispense with that contract,
That Caesar looks so sad.
I go, my lord.
A local habitation and a name.
Will you cover then, sir?
What seest thou in me, York? why dost thou pause?
meat, and yet thy head hath been beaten as addle as
As e'er thy father Henry made it mine;
That paragon, thy daughter,--
I will reward thee
Then all afire with me: the king's son, Ferdinand,
Well, my lord.
To make thee capable.
How oft hast thou with perjury cleft the root!
Now my sworn friend and then mine enemy,
And he of these that can do most of all
'Mongst friends,
Is your lady come?
Makes wing to the rooky wood:
O unhappy youth!
'Tis time to speak; my pains are quite forgot.
As hazel nuts and sweeter than the kernels.
So worthless peasants bargain for their wives,
It is so; the Count Claudio shall marry the
christenings? do you look for ale and cakes here,
The lane is guarded: nothing routs us but
Thou foul accursed minister of hell!
potato-finger, tickles these together! Fry, lechery, fry!
Than I and such a knave.
To answer all the city.
Through which the lovers, Pyramus and Thisby,
The actors are at hand and by their show
Sir, I thank God, I have been so well brought up
man to kill him: 't has been proved. If I were a
Now, whilst your purpled hands do reek and smoke,
Who can be wise, amazed, temperate and furious,
To follow still the changes of the moon
good a commander with so slight, so drunken, and so
To the best bride-bed will we,
Myself and what is mine to you and yours
[Sings]
The heir of Alencon, Katharine her name.
three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the squier.
And does not Toby take you a blow o' the lips then?
To give me ample satisfaction
Thus will I drown your exclamations.
So may it come, thy master, whom thou lovest,
Let kings assemble; for my grief's so great
Some time I shall sleep out, the rest I'll whistle.
Love-thoughts lie rich when canopied with bowers.
Sirrah, leave us to ourselves: we must confer.
your old virginity, is like one of our French
Exit
We'll beat 'em into bench-holes: I have yet
I do beseech you send for some of them.
no dishonest desire to desire to be a woman of the
What wilt thou do, thou peevish officer?
I bear i' the state; and nature does require
To season love, that of it doth not taste!
Then let it do at once
Fair Margaret knows
Bid Salisbury and Warwick come to me.
Howe'er it pleases you to take it so,
Forsook his scene and enter'd in a brake
gentlemen.
And for your brother, he was lately sent
With all my heart.
Shylock, the world thinks, and I think so too,
Tell me for truth the measure of his love
And oftentimes have purposed to forbid
True, when avoided grace makes destiny:
Iago,--
There is a vice that most I do abhor,
Exeunt
Softly, my masters! if you be gentlemen,
But my heart bleeds; and most accursed am I
By the heart's still rhetoric disclosed with eyes,
And have not they suffered? Yes, I warrant;
Go, lead the way; I long to see my prison.
Great Jupiter be praised! Lucius is taken.
So oft as that shall be,
And, to say truth, Verona brags of him
Let us take the law of our sides; let them begin.
Some petty and unprofitable dukedoms.
dialogue between the fool and the soldier? Come,
[Aside to CARDINAL]  Cardinal, I am with you.
Into the trunks of men: thy currish spirit
Held a late court at Dunstable, six miles off
through and through; my sword hacked like a
Take this fellow in, and send for
The same I am, ere ancient'st order was
That by thy comfortable beams I may
By nature made for murders and for rapes.
Enter DEMETRIUS and CHIRON with LAVINIA, ravished; her hands cut off, and her tongue cut out
He did.
That thou betray'dst Polixenes,'twas nothing;
With less respect than we do minister
Puffing at all, winnows the light away;
[Aside to MISTRESS PAGE]  Trust me, I thought on her:
So sweet a death as hanging presently.
would change places with his officer; for, look you,
That mouldeth goblins swift as frenzy's thoughts.
Such a compounded one?
now is the whole man governed with one: so that if
Unless I have mista'en his colours much,
It is not that that hath incensed the duke:
So many hours must I sport myself;
What private griefs they have, alas, I know not,
From treason's secret knife and traitors' rage
In her prophetic fury sew'd the work;
I wish't might fall on me, when I was found
And why not you?
Who's yonder,
Still Music
And grapple with him ere he comes so nigh.
If not most mortal to him. But, let it come.
ACT V
For Somerset, off with his guilty head.
The victory fell on us.
To hear the story of your life, which must
That I am desperate of obtaining her.
Shylock, there's thrice thy money offer'd thee.
Here, sir; but trouble him not, his wits are gone.
That like the stately Phoebe 'mongst her nymphs
There then; how then? what then? Let me see wherein
Worthy Menenius Agrippa; one that hath always loved
And now what rests but that we spend the time
Be Mowbray's sins so heavy in his bosom,
pretending in her discoveries of dishonour: in few,
To suckle fools and chronicle small beer.
there; or, if he do not, it's no great matter there.
Yet not so deeply as to thee belongs,
The honour, sir, that flames in your fair eyes,
Now buckler falsehood with a pedigree?
This maugre all the world will I keep safe,
Not I, sir; pray you, keep on.
When I have said, make answer to us both.
Half sleep, half waking: but as yet, I swear,
Yours by this hand: and to see how he prizes the
Hold up your hands, say nothing; I'll speak all.
Nay, let me alone for swearing.
Sir Toby to look to me! This concurs directly with
Exit, with the body
Which I had recommended to his use
That she may make, unmake, do what she list,
there is no staff more reverend than one tipped with horn.
Call in the sheriff.
Most true. The will! Let's stay and hear the will.
Content thee, prince; I will restore to thee
Three-piled hyperboles, spruce affectation,
Most true; the law shall bruise him.
Be ruled; you shall not go.
I do not find that thou dealest justly with me.
black beard will turn white; a curled pate will grow
That Romeo bid thee fetch?
Speak to her, Hamlet.
No, Warwick, no; while life upholds this arm,
away the fool; therefore, I say again, take her away.
in studs, and here and there pieced with packthread.
world! the paragon of animals! And yet, to me,
the moon when time was.
Of knaves once more; my cook and I'll provide.
[To NORFOLK and SUFFOLK]
And will, to save the blood on either side,
I could do this, and that with no rash potion,
He that would vouch it in any place but here.
Call'd the brave Lord Ponton de Santrailles;
'Faith, that he did--I know not what he did.
Do we but find the tyrant's power to-night,
In this fair rescue thou hast brought to me.
I had fear'd death, of all the men i' the world
We see the ground whereon these woes do lie;
The death of Fulvia, with more urgent touches,
And seek for grace. What a thrice-double ass
Although I hate her, I'll not harm her so.
Will he woo her? ay, or I'll hang her.
And will not wrong it.
What thought I be not so in grace as you,
Say, is my kingdom lost? why, 'twas my care
To hear thee speak of Naples. He does hear me;
A shrewd knave and an unhappy.
Where several worthies make one dignity,
I never saw till now. I knew thy grandsire,
Boyet, prepare; I will away tonight.
Be comforted, dear madam.
My honour'd lord, you know right well you did;
And what's the third?
Let 'em alone, and draw the curtain close:
If I in thought felt not her very sorrow!
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here?
You would have slipt like him; but he, like you,
Thus proudly pight upon our Phrygian plains,
But, for the bloody napkin?
Through whom I might command it? Come thou near.
The ship, sir, the slip; can you not conceive?
Would make thee quickly hop without thy head.
Why, how now, Adam! no greater heart in thee? Live
Shall then my father's will be of no force
Would that do it good?
Why, all his behaviors did make their retire
By its own visage: if I then deny it,
She and the Dauphin have been juggling:
For pity of mine age, whose youth was spent
Thou'rt an emperor, Caesar, Keisar, and Pheezar. I
Enter the ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY, and the BISHOP OF ELY
valour is crushed into folly, his folly sauced with
What traitor hears me, and says not amen?
does those things. Well, God's above all; and there
A wonder, master! here's a costard broken in a shin.
What satisfaction canst thou have to-night?
Ecstasy!
His youngest son; and would not change that calling,
Well, it was proclaimed 'damsel.'
We have lost our labour; they are gone a contrary
This is most likely!
For who hates honour hates the gods above.
I give thee thanks in part of thy deserts,
But ne'er till now his scandal of retire.
[Aside]  You are cock and capon too; and you crow,
many friends as enemies; which friends, sir, as it
melancholy sold a goodly manor for a song.
If by me broke, what fool is not so wise
What, art thou mad? art thou mad? is not the truth
Might I but live to see thee in my touch,
Within thine eyes sat twenty thousand deaths,
Rather proclaim it, Westmoreland, through my host,
'Tis well said again;
Let hell want pains enough to torture me.
To the disposing of it nought rebell'd.
Thou shalt not be the worse for me: there's gold.
unclean fishpond of her displeasure, and, as he
[Aside to SUFFOLK]
Worthy Andronicus, ill art thou repaid
We'll be friends first.
We have not yet been seen in any house,
them again, lest they consult about the giving up of
Past grace? obedience?
That presently you take our way for home;
To study fashions to adorn my body:
His hands abroad display'd, as one that grasp'd
Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall
When your young nephew Titus lost his leg:
Thou hast bewitch'd my daughter, and thou art
'It is as hard to come as for a camel
Be of good cheer;
Re-purchased with the blood of enemies.
Re-enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, MOTH, COSTARD, and others
How angerly I taught my brow to frown,
Above five hours: see how she gins to blow
Your master quits you; and for your service done him,
How now, Marina! why do you keep alone?
When it proved otherwise?
What patch is made our porter? My master stays in
Against all rules of nature, and must be driven
My heart into my mouth: I love your majesty
A pretty plot, well chosen to build upon!
And that dead saint which then I weeping follow'd;
You know my father left me some prescriptions
Settlest admired reverence in a slave:
Bear with me cousin, for I was amazed
I'll tear her all to pieces.
Tell me how it came this night
Horns and shout within. LYSANDER, DEMETRIUS, HELENA, and HERMIA wake and start up
Help me into some house, Benvolio,
With what a sorrow Cromwell leaves his lord.
Something, sure, of state,
It is true.
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother.
You knot of mouth-friends I smoke and lukewarm water
I am glad to see your worships well.
Weep not, sweet queen; for trickling tears are vain.
I speak in respect--
Such troops of citizens to speak with him,
And art thou come to this?
O, welcome, Oxford! for we want thy help.
Exeunt
For ever, and for ever, farewell, Brutus!
An thou let part so, Sir Andrew, would thou mightst
Should now eat up her own!
Did I offend your highness.
The shard-borne beetle with his drowsy hums
A brittle glory shineth in this face:
By all the duties that I owe to Rome,
Leonine, take her by the arm, walk with her.
Whose fresh complexion and whose heart together
SCENE I. An apartment in the DUKE'S palace.
Know you the hand?
sleeves? do other servants so? Thou wert best set
That thou, residing here, go'st yet with me,
In him that was of late an heretic,
From heart of very heart, great Hector, welcome.
virtues it was, but he was certainly whipped out of the court.
Upon thy cheek lay I this zealous kiss,
Dost thou not know?
[Within]  Qui est la?
her with crying; for the ewe that will not hear her
I am call'd Dercetas;
And I will sit as quiet as a lamb;
SCENE II. A field of battle near Barnet.
I am best pleased to be from such a deed.
And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep,
And why not as the lion?
Is in thyself rebellion to thyself;
Ay, in the catalogue ye go for men;
Your honour is most welcome.
And, which is worse, within thy nasty mouth!
We are lucky, boy; and to be so still requires
When this advice is free I give and honest,
A lioness hath whelped in the streets;
To fall it on Gonzalo.
With Charles, Alencon and that traitorous rout.
Would give preceptial medicine to rage,
And we shall make full satisfaction.
And tell fair Hero I am Claudio,
Lend me a light. Know we this face or no?
Exeunt
Subdued me to her rate: she got the ring;
Nurture can never stick; on whom my pains,
sure will hang upon my tongue like a new-married
armour on my back, under the correction of bragging
The Ghosts vanish
To the succeeding royalty he leaves
That Douglas and the English rebels met
I will upon all hazards well believe
Our love being yours, the error that love makes
Our battles join'd, and both sides fiercely fought:
dumb-show. Let us send her to call him in to dinner.
Suffolk, ambassador for Henry King of England, that
long spoon.
Was both herself and love: O, then, give pity
The rest shall bear this burden
Do not yourself such wrong, who are in this
In pain of your dislike or pain of death,
My noble lords and cousins all, good morrow.
SCENE I. Dunsinane. Ante-room in the castle.
Is notwithstanding up. Good morrow, Antony.
And death's dishonourable victory
Methinks I should revive the soldiers' hearts,
Good lords, conduct him to his regiment:
Dighton and Forrest, whom I did suborn
My wayward husband hath a hundred times
I thank you for that: if my lord get a boy of you,
Ay, so you serve us
thee, so thou wilt be capable of a courtier's
Which be the malefactors?
Exit Servant with PETER
Immediately he was upon his knee,
And prays that you will hie you home to dinner.
Thus have you heard me sever'd from my bliss;
Shall I do that which all the Parthian darts,
O the blest gods! so will you wish on me,
Why?
At Ephesus, the temple see,
With stately triumphs, mirthful comic shows,
church, and have a good priest that can tell you
Come, Hector, come, go back:
Here, Lord Bassanio; swear to keep this ring.
Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time
A beggar begs that never begg'd before.
Nursing of my sons!
Dost hate a medlar?
I speak too long; but 'tis to peize the time,
Indeed, he should be a footman by the garments he
It did take place, 'I do,' quoth he, 'perceive
And threats the throat of that his officer
Will knit and break religions, bless the accursed,
Nay, never paint me now:
Fie, fie, unreverend tongue! to call her bad,
Romeo! my cousin Romeo!
'Tis not the balm, the sceptre and the ball,
His spell in that is out: the king hath found
For truth's sake and his conscience; that his bones,
Where they should be relieved. Two beggars told me
winds and waters sighs and tears; they are greater
to the determination of justice: yet had he framed
In golden palaces, as it becomes.
not what 'twas to be beaten till lately. Follow
I may revolve and ruminate my grief.
More hair than wit? It may be; I'll prove it. The
Shall Master Slender steal my Nan away
Follows me every where, I know not why:
To stand upon my kingdom once again.
my discretion so weakly. Will you laugh
observation we have made of it hath not been
Say that I slew them not?
How could he see his way to seek out you?
Now, Warwick, wilt thou ope the city gates,
The phrase would be more german to the matter, if we
And, in that kind, swears you do more usurp
In that word's death; no words can that woe sound.
Lords, I protest, my soul is full of woe,
As hotly and as nobly with thy love
I told you, sir, my daughter is disposed of.
Sith nor the exterior nor the inward man
My master's mind.
the athversary, you may discuss unto the duke, look
SCENE IV. A street.
To-day, my lord; and for three months before,
Lord, Lord, she will be a joyful woman.
with such waterflies, diminutives of nature!
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
Who may I rather challenge for unkindness
The battles of the Lord of hosts he fought:
SCENE VI. London. The Tower.
And in his simple show he harbours treason.
He wrought upon her.
I will confess what I know without constraint: if
Since he could draw a sword, and is ill school'd
That shall not be much amiss: Yet, as the matter
A most auspicious star, whose influence
7. SUFFOLK, in his robe of estate, his coronet
At knowing of thy choice.
move and what he hears may be believed, that the
O, my dear lord,--
Mercy on me!
Give us the place alone: we will hear this divinity.
'Tis a hard bondage to become the wife
And so will he do; for the man doth fear God,
Out of thy honest truth, to play the woman.
Of my young Harry. O that it could be proved
the war, the Roman wars, in the way of argument,
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse and DROMIO of Syracuse
Of loss, of slaughter and discomfiture:
devil: have at the very eye of that proverb with 'A
We'll wait upon your lordship.
To-morrow, my lord: time goes on crutches till love
And balms applied to, you, yet dare I never
Which pries not to the interior, but, like the martlet,
What say'st thou? hast thou not a word of joy?
till he hath pawned his horses to mine host of the Garter.
Exit Vintner
Enough to make a whore forswear her trade,
As deep as that, though true.
Lo, as the bark, that hath discharged her fraught,
Betwixt my love and your high majesty.
Strange things in hand, Master Brook! Follow.
From whence at first she weigh'd her anchorage,
It serves you well, my lord, to say so much.
Ours of true zeal and deep integrity.
Please you, I'll write your ladyship another.
Beyond the infinite and boundless reach
Ay, marry,
The tiger will be mild whiles she doth mourn;
Than I will wrong such honourable men.
Disgrace to your great worths and shame to me,
Sings in GONZALO's ear
Dispatch: this knave's tongue begins to double.
But if she cannot love you, sir?
Or else thou diest to-morrow.
'Tis likely,
With all his trim belonging; and from this time,
When it deserves, with characters of brass,
Therefore, lord constable, haste on Montjoy.
A villain.
mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent music.
most blessed condition.
As if you were dismay'd: be cheerful, sir.
Come, come, Lavinia; look, thy foes are bound.
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Good madam, make me blessed in your care
Henry the Fifth, thy ghost I invocate:
I am quit.
Therefore each one betake him to his rest;
Madam, for myself, to heaven I do appeal,
Unless you be possess'd with devilish spirits,
Since I have entered into these wars.
Exit
That thou mayst shake the superflux to them,
That their designment halts: a noble ship of Venice
Now where's the Bastard's braves, and Charles his gleeks?
These dangerous unsafe lunes i' the king,
The people do admit you, and are summon'd
Re-enter MARIANA
See, see, King Richard doth himself appear,
instance and argument to commend themselves: I
From son to son, some four or five descents
Of wreakful heaven, whose bare unhoused trunks,
For of no right, nor colour like to right,
Which held three dearly as his soul's redemption,
And we will not, heaven's offer we refuse,
'Zounds! how has he the leisure to be sick
Even to affright thee with the view thereof.
Then should not we be tired with this ado.
That you do think you are not what you are.
on his sinister cheek; it was this very sword
Came in and satisfied him.
Come weep with me; past hope, past cure, past help!
Nay, rather turn this day out of the week,
The weary sun hath made a golden set,
With his disease of all-shunn'd poverty,
Speak briefly, can you like of Paris' love?
Well, and how?
And in a dark and dankish vault at home
Of their best trust; o'er them Aufidius,
And fashion your demeanor to my looks,
Fair lords, your fortunes are alike in all,
Fairies, begone, and be all ways away.
'Fore God, an excellent song.
Am like to do: take in your arms this piece
From first to last, the onset and retire
Being so frustrate, tell him he mocks
All his tricks founder, and he brings his physic
The noble Scot, Lord Douglas, when he saw
Which bleeds away, even as a form of wax
and Thisby whisper.
prize, and have it; yea, and can show it you here in
Exit DOCTOR CAIUS
Where, from thy sight, I should be raging mad,
Have to the full appeach'd.
If Lewis by your assistance win the day.
Lay by these:--
In such a loathed manner;
Think, and die.
were he a horse;
I promise you, my lord, you moved me much.
description, level at my affection.
And corn shall fly asunder: for, I know,
Therefore Achilles: but, whate'er, know this:
Take this purse of gold,
Now, if you can blush and cry 'guilty,' cardinal,
That which his noble ancestors achieved with blows:
But, as I think,--for truly would I speak,
Hear sweet discourse, converse with noblemen.
And durst not once peep out.
His jarring concord, and his discord dulcet,
And in this vow do chain my soul to thine!
sores; and such as indeed were never soldiers, but
Boys, apes, braggarts, Jacks, milksops!
Of will and judgment: how may I avoid,
Coming forward
By my regard, but kill'd none so. Camillo,--
Good sister, wrong me not, nor wrong yourself,
Sir, praise me not;
Enforce their charity. Poor Turlygod! poor Tom!
With her whom here I cannot hold on shore;
That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire
SCENE II. Alexandria. A room in the monument.
To the young man send humble treaties, dodge
ANTIPHOLUS
And we will make thee famous through the world.
Still a-repairing, ever out of frame,
and a quiet sword; by the means whereof a' breaks
Cousin, you apprehend passing shrewdly.
Sir Proteus, your father calls for you:
'Tis too respective and too sociable
Which, as I think, you know not. Here is a letter
Cuts off TITUS's hand
Stood smiling to behold his lion's whelp
If that the youth of my new interest here
Fell sorrow's tooth doth never rankle more
That ever lived in the tide of times.
I will not stay to offend you.
Smithfield.
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
Which he was lord of; or whether nature,
Upon these eyes of thine I'll set my foot.
With an unquiet soul. You shall have gold
Is it not Hero? Who can blot that name
Is Gilliams with the packet gone?
I do beseech you, give him leave to go.
Exeunt
The sternness of his presence?
Let him appear that's come from Antony.
Now heaven send thee good fortune!
But by and by comes back to Romeo,
I would not for the world.
Is she as tall as me?
Montague's men from the wall, and thrust his maids
To be o'erpower'd; and wilt thou, pupil-like,
Where you were tied in duty, and as sorry
Take her away; I do not like her now;
As now again to snatch our palm from palm,
Your highness shall do well to grant her suit;
Come, cordial and not poison, go with me
Which, with ourselves, all rest at thy dispose.
Brutus, a word with you.
Then if she fear, or be to blame,
Which so long sunder'd friends should dwell upon:
him: he asked me of what parentage I was; I told
What damned error, but some sober brow
Gloucester, we will meet; to thy cost, be sure:
I will subscribe and say I wrong'd the duke.
My husband will not rejoice so much at the abuse of
Ha, do I perceive dat? have you make-a de sot of
Who for Bohemia bend, to signify
Is this in way of truth; yet ne'ertheless,
But this I think, there's no man is so vain
Let me not name it to you, you chaste stars!--
Pisa renown'd for grave citizens
The other part reserved I by consent,
Ay, but the case is alter'd:
Hanging is the word, sir: if
Ill-favouredly become the morning field:
Why to give over, I pray you? is it a shame to get
Ay, you may, you may.
And if thine eyes can water for his death,
Say, shall the current of our right run on?
time, have you heard her say?
O dear father,
For what's more miserable than discontent?
This news is mortal to the queen: look down
Exit
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
If this but answer to my just belief,
Of his fair mistress: in the afternoon
To lie discolour'd by this place of peace?
And I for sorrow sung,
Nor none can know, Leonine being gone.
And learn this lesson, draw thy sword in right.
If he were proud,--
And make him of like spirit to himself.
I have a way to win their loves again;
And, to add greater honours to his age
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
And much too little of that good I saw
I rather will suspect the sun with cold
Whiles we are suitors to their throne, decays
To foreign princes, 'Ego et Rex meus'
Clarence and Somerset both gone to Warwick!
Thee they may hurt.
Madam, be patient: as I was cause
My hand, bully; thou shalt have egress and regress;
I am joyful to hear of their readiness, and am the
so: ever your fresh whore and your powdered bawd:
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together:
And of the loyal service of his son,
Wipe off the dust that hides our sceptre's gilt
By sea! what else?
And watch withal; for, but I be deceived,
Exit
morning, but as a madman's epistles are no gospels,
Unite commutual in most sacred bands.
Which, follow'd well, would demonstrate them now
Distract your army, which doth most consist
To get good guard and go along with me.
If thou hadst hands to help thee knit the cord.
I am sick and sullen.
Show his eyes, and grieve his heart;
Much will be seen in that. In the mean time,
I pray you, mar no more of my verses with reading
I'll make a voyage to the Holy Land,
Sits in grim majesty, to fright the world.
Proceed by swallowing that, for he believes
The pangs of barr'd affections, though the king
Not a poor boy, sir, but the rich Jew's man; that
Exeunt
Out, alas, sir! cozenage, mere cozenage!
Our court shall be a little Academe,
Beheld them, when they lighted, how they clung
Hear me yourself; for that which I must speak
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
Saying, 'What lack you?' and 'Where lies your grief?'
In censure of his seeming.
Under your patience, gentle empress,
Even to the opposed end of our intents:
And tempt the rheumy and unpurged air
Have with my knife carved in Roman letters,
And my help.
That made him send Lord Hastings to the Tower,
A diminution in our captain's brain
And happy were I in my timely death,
To the winds whose pity, sighing back again,
How long shall I be patient? ah, how long
There is no reason but I shall be blind.
That you will take your instant leave o' the king
The duke comes home to-morrow; nay, dry your eyes;
'Tis two or three, my lord, that bring you word
I was the chief that raised him to the crown,
Nay, if you be an undertaker, I am for you.
Enter ROMEO and JULIET above, at the window
As thou art to this hour was Richard then
Which we in justice cannot well deny,
They have a king and officers of sorts;
'Gainst whom the world cannot hold argument,
Is left to tyrannize upon my breast;
Tying her duty, beauty, wit and fortunes
God send you, sir, a speedy infirmity, for the
By my old beard,
Of your accustom'd diligence to me.
Break up the gates, I'll be your warrantize.
in the exchange.
If I do find it: well.
Let what is dear in Sicily be cheap:
Enter Time, the Chorus
Where is the post that came from valiant Oxford?
me! You would play upon me; you would seem to know
We have some secrets to confer about.
Do not prove me so;
By bare imagination of a feast?
By my troth, Nerissa, my little body is aweary of
I oft deliver'd from his forfeitures
As thy eye-beams, when their fresh rays have smote
good a man as yourself, both in the disciplines of
No, Cassio is not kill'd.
Husband, I cannot pray that thou mayst win;
You would have married her most shamefully,
Nay, nothing, Master Moth, but what they look upon.
An if my hand be out, then belike your hand is in.
Seven of my people, with an obedient start, make
Cressid, I love thee in so strain'd a purity,
All things is ready. How near is our master?
Which ever since hath kept my eyes from rest;
My duty on your hand.
Before God! and, in my mind, very wise.
An alarum: excursions. BEDFORD, brought in sick  in a chair. Enter TALBOT and BURGUNDY without:  within JOAN LA PUCELLE, CHARLES, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, ALENCON, and REIGNIER, on the walls
will do, let her remain; but I'll never give o'er.
Re-enter TAMORA, with Attendants; TITUS ANDRONICUS, and Lucius
Stop up the access and passage to remorse,
Enter MACBETH
To the PRINCESS
He did entreat me, past all saying nay,
To be her men and wear her livery:
Yet oftentimes he goes but mean-apparell'd.
The swelling difference of your settled hate:
but I'll bridle it: he shall die, an it be but for
Step into the chamber, Sir John.
Would be eternal in our triumph: go,
As others would ambitiously receive it.
I never saw my father in my life.
Safer than trust too far:
She shall pursue it with the soul of love:
I'll see before I doubt; when I doubt, prove;
SCENE III. The same. A room in SHYLOCK'S house.
Than yours so branchless. But, as you requested,
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
earned him. Away!
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike,
The full cause of our coming.
And let another half stand laughing by,
To equal any single crown o' the earth
There, take the crown, and, with the crown, my curse;
A peevish self-will'd harlotry it is.
Noble she is, but if she have forgot
thou shouldst have heard how her horse fell and she
I find she names my very deed of love;
Foster'd, illumined, cherish'd, kept alive.
Is goads, thorns, nettles, tails of wasps,
I will preserve myself: and am bethought
We are but warriors for the working-day;
To greet me with premeditated welcomes;
But on, my liege; for very little pains
Enter QUEEN MARGARET and SOMERSET
And come with naked swords.
Will you give horns, chaste lady? do not so.
But I will remedy this gear ere long,
You make me marvel: wherefore ere this time
Monster, I will kill this man: his daughter and I
One that, above all other strifes, contended
[Aside]  For this,
You have deserved nobly of your country, and you
O, if to fight for king and commonweal
of my master's horse-tail till they kiss their
You sacrifice your tears, your sighs, your heart:
I am near to the place where they should meet, if
Of Helicanus would set on
I was moved withal.
The thane of Fife had a wife: where is she now?--
There serve your lusts, shadow'd from heaven's eye,
Whom I proclaim a man of truth, of mercy;
But thou didst kill my children.
Mistress Ford, your sorrow hath eaten up my
words. What doth he think of us?
We'll strive to bear it for your worthy sake
If their purgation did consist in words,
husband's purse: he hath a legion of angels.
If thou canst like this creature as a maid,
of Kent in Germany.
For certain ducats: he with none return'd
SCENE X. The camp of the Volsces.
clothes; but I am now, sir, muddied in fortune's
That she may long live here, God say amen!
And if King Edward be as true and just
place call upon me; and dispatch with Angelo, that
No:
Pray you now, buy it.
I would you knew Ford, sir, that you might avoid him
Will seem as pure as snow, and the poor state
For truth, for duty, and for loyalty.
And pay the debt I never promised,
Shall I obtain it?
What news, my lord?
The more and less came in with cap and knee;
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair,
come to my ward; for thence will not I to-day.
They are all but stomachs, and we all but food;
God knows I had as lief be none as one.
That have outlived the eagle, page thy heels,
Or friends with Caesar, or not captive to him,
My lord, when at their home
How do you both? you are manifest house-keepers.
Enter Messenger
Child Rowland to the dark tower came,
What, are they in this pit? O wondrous thing!
Thou comest not, Caius, now for tribute that
thee to some shelter; and thou shalt not die for
well. Those healths will make thee and thy state
If I court moe women, you'll couch with moe men!
To say to me that thou art out of breath?
this sister of mine do with rice? But my father
SCENE II. Another part of the heath. Storm still.
We thank your honour.
To engross up glorious deeds on my behalf;
to sit, have you not?
'Item: She will often praise her liquor.'
Is by a forged process of my death
wiser, the waywarder: make the doors upon a woman's
Loyal and neutral, in a moment? No man:
Sinfully pluck'd, and not a man of you
What should I speak?
Into the clustering battle of the French;
But hold himself safe in his prisonment.
As the moon does, by wanting light to give:
Come, come, my lord, you'ld spare your spoons: you
Exit BALTHASAR
you have seen the sequel.
Many a bounteous year must be employ'd
A most ridiculous monster, to make a wonder of a
God grant him health! Did you confer with him?
The crown o' the earth doth melt. My lord!
And makes him roar these accusations forth.
has pray his Pible well, dat he is no come: by gar,
And so do I. Victorious Prince of York,
A linguist and a man of such perfection
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
her in yellow stockings, and 'tis a colour she
It appears so by his weapons. Keep them asunder:
Devouring pestilence hangs in our air
Kent, on thy life, no more.
Benedictus! why Benedictus? you have some moral in
This was my lord's best hope; now all are fled,
Or that we women had men's privilege
The general, subject to a well-wish'd king,
Therefore let's follow.
That we are here.
Moved with remorse of these outrageous broils,
Propinquity and property of blood,
That so neglected you.
And she is dead, slander'd to death by villains,
There shall I rest secure from force and fraud.
A father cruel, and a step-dame false;
Vere is Mistress Page? By gar, I am cozened: I ha'
Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be
Sound, trumpet!
SCENE VI. The same. Another room in the palace.
Ay, my good lord; and no one in this presence
You must report to the Volscian lords, how plainly
Your eye hath too much youth in't: not a month
Out, gall!
Goodman, my lord cardinal's man, for keeping my
Sir, that's to-morrow.
Exeunt Lords
hath confessed himself to Morgan, whom he supposes
But, mighty lord, this merry inclination
But, God be thank'd, there's no need of me,
The motto thus, 'Sic spectanda fides.'
Or in thy piteous heart plant thou thine ear;
What honey is expected? Degree being vizarded,
By him one step below, he by the next,
That's most certain.
Nor claim no further than your new-fall'n right,
since. How now! who's there?
As thus, to drop them still upon one place,
Pray you, poor gentleman, take up some other
If it be dark, how dost thou know 'tis he?
Why then, we did our main opinion crush
Caesar's, to him I say, that Brutus' love to Caesar
Whate'er it be,
And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps,
For he's a bastard one--had plotted with them
Not within, sir.
Kill what I love?--a savage jealousy
I pray you, pardon me; I cannot speak.
By my troth, I take my young lord to be a very
We are their parents and original.
Then let the pebbles on the hungry beach
To what we fear of death.
This is a scurvy tune too: but here's my comfort.
Suppose this arm is for the Duke of York,
Of my dear friend. What should I say, sweet lady?
So by his father lost: and this, I take it,
Sweet Beatrice, wouldst thou come when I called thee?
As for these silken-coated slaves, I pass not:
Shall I speak ill of him that is my husband?
That none so small advantage shall step forth
And stick them in our will. Sixth part of each?
business after your own wisdom. I would unstate
How London doth pour out her citizens!
The soldier that did company these three
To RICHMOND
Oxford, Oxford, for Lancaster!
I little like.
When all, for mine, if I may call offence,
Tut, I came not to hear this.
And give it food. There is an old poor man,
And so, good rest.
I warrant you, madam.
The scars upon your honour, therefore, he
The statue is but newly fix'd, the colour's Not dry.
Or nicely charge your understanding soul
Makes factious feasts; rails on our state of war,
Falstaff here?
And 'tis not done. The attempt and not the deed
And furthermore tell him, we desire to know of him,
must show fairly outward, should more appear like
To see what this child does, and praise my Maker.
Men's eyes were made to look, and let them gaze;
In single opposition, hand to hand,
be in that mind.
Must it be violent, and as he does conceive
fashions: you shall fare well; you shall have the
Enter ANTONIO and SEBASTIAN
Stands still in esperance, lives not in fear:
Neither;'tis a woman's fault.
And art thou yet to thy own soul so blind,
Would be even mortal to me.
She hath forsworn to love, and in that vow
And mine with hers, and thine, and Margaret's.
What is your quarrel? how began it first?
The means that makes us strangers!
What he his heart should make
to his purgation would perhaps plunge him into far
More than his reason. But 'tis a common proof,
Sir, the duke is marvellous little beholding to your
But now I know her: if she be a traitor,
But she I mean is promised by her friends
Brought hither in a most unlucky hour,
Here stand we both, and aim we at the best:
the end, call me cut.
To loss and what may follow! Weep I cannot,
Alarum. Retreat. Enter YORK, RICHARD, WARWICK, and Soldiers, with drum and colours
And many an old man's sigh and many a widow's,
If you shall marry,
And wisdom of my council; but I find none.
Pluck me out all the linen.
Do not you love me?
Bless you, sir!
men eat Timon, and he sees 'em not! It grieves me
my means. The jewels you have had from me to
Thy comforts can do me no good at all;
There's much example for't; the fellow that sits
Can I not say, I thank you? My better parts
Enter CASSIO, and certain Officers with torches
What wouldst do then, Apemantus?
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
Atalanta's heels. Will you sit down with me? and
Running it thus--you'll tender me a fool.
Montano and myself being in speech,
Base men, that use them to so base effect!
To be in love, where scorn is bought with groans;
That Anne, my wife, is sick and like to die:
enough in his belly. Hold, there is twelve pence
One i' the neck, and two i' the thigh,--there's
Shrouded in cloth of state; balm'd and entreasured
Nay, nay, to the purpose.
'Tis some odd humour pricks him to this fashion;
What, think you then the king shall be deposed?
Send forth your amorous token for fair Maudlin:
I warrant you, he's the man should fight with him.
Alarum continues
Charge him too coldly. Tell him, you are sure
Yea, but not change his spots: take but my shame.
And sped you, sir?
Ah, when the means are gone that buy this praise,
Ye blew the fire that burns ye: now have at ye!
Well, niece, I hope to see you one day fitted with a husband.
Master Fer! I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret
Whom zeal and charity brought to the field
What you command, that rests in me to do.
Come, go with me: I will go seek the king.
O Margaret, Margaret, now thy heavy curse
Enter ADRIANA and LUCIANA
Enter FALSTAFF and BARDOLPH
Two creatures heartily.
We will establish our estate upon
Doth turn oh! oh! to ha! ha! he!
Until four hundred one and twenty years
To be exalted with the threatening clouds:
It wearies me; you say it wearies you;
That right in peace which here we urge in war,
I'll undertake to land them on our coast
You must needs learn, lord, to amend this fault:
Saints m your injuries, devils being offended,
Let me not be pent up, sir: I will fast, being loose.
Ay, is't, I warrant him: do but read.
He is enfranchised and come to light:
It shall be said, his judgment ruled our hands;
And for her sake I will not part with him.
I dare abide no longer.
Wherein you see me smear'd; if any fear
telling true, but so.
Lest he that is the supreme King of kings
the hanging of the thieves and so become a rare hangman.
deed of saying is quite out of use. To promise is
O, ten times faster Venus' pigeons fly
The present eye praises the present object.
Enter Murderers
Alas, I blame you not; for you are mortal,
That caused a lesser villain than myself,
lady: make your excuse wisely, you were best.
the inside of your purse to the outside of his hand,
Most wrongfully accused your substitute,
Enter MALVOLIO
SCENE V. Dunsinane. Within the castle.
Exit
Nay, put out all your hands. Not one word more:
Silence; no more: go closely in with me:
How fair the tribune speaks to calm my thoughts!
the ribs bare. But, sirrah, make haste: Percy is
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, BALTHASAR, DON JOHN, BORACHIO, MARGARET, URSULA and others, masked
And looks not on his evils: is not this true?
For your own quiet, as to rectify
Giving her DESDEMONA's handkerchief
I have more cause.
Thus war hath given thee peace, for thou art still.
Why do you send so thick?
That always favour'd him.
Our dukedom till God please to send the rest.
Orpheus with his lute made trees,
SCENE III. The garden of the castle.
Wisely and slow; they stumble that run fast.
An 'twere to me, I should be mad at it.
Exit
But when I tell him he hates flatterers,
Will make my boldness manners. Now, good angels
We shall know by this fellow: the players cannot
befriend me so far, as to use mine own words to him?
Know, Cade, we come ambassadors from the king
For me to joy and weep their gain and loss:
So sweet a bedfellow? But, conscience, conscience!
The leaves and fruit maintain'd with beauty's sun,
The hedge-sparrow fed the cuckoo so long,
Turn thee, Benvolio, look upon thy death.
Betwixt our armies true intelligence.
There's something tells me, but it is not love,
But till 'twere known!
What wouldst thou write of me, if thou shouldst
Unmannerly breech'd with gore: who could refrain,
Her fruit-trees all upturned, her hedges ruin'd,
My son's no dearer.
Peter!
old ling and our Isbels o' the country are nothing
Who is it in the press that calls on me?
Pray you, do.
Where is thy head? where's that? Ay me!
Truth's a dog must to kennel; he must be whipped
You take a precipice for no leap of danger,
Here will I rest me till the break of day.
Being full of supper and distempering draughts,
Which then our leisure would not let us hear,
The state and inclination of the day:
Wherein you range under this subtle king;
Sergeant, you shall.
Most noble Caesar! We'll revenge his death.
Will this gear ne'er be mended?
Begun through malice of the bishop's men.
way:
intelligence, that he is seldom from the house of a
Enter AENEAS
Your oath I will not trust; but go with speed
Some patient leisure to excuse myself.
For he's no man on whom perfections wait
Familiar in his mouth as household words
Here is a friar, and slaughter'd Romeo's man;
Why, so didst thou: or are they spare in diet,
The queen is valued thirty thousand strong,
And we are barren and bereft of friends;
and by such two that would by all likelihood have
Here, said they, is the terror of the French,
It is extempore, from my mother-wit.
five or at seven?
Hung on our driving boat, I saw your brother,
Untutor'd lad, thou art too malapert.
And fly like thought from them to me again.
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own:
Breed, by his sufferance, more of such a kind.
I have a king's oath to the contrary.
Re-enter BOULT, with the Pirates and MARINA
Where?
His is certain, ours is doubtful.
And mark the musical confusion
rogue: for, though it be night, yet the moon
You may, indeed, say so;
My lords, we were forewarned of your coming,
Call'd Marina
to come in disguised against me to try a fall.
Ay, but to lose our bottles in the pool,--
Stand to't.
Her inclination, let him not leave out
Enter SHALLOW, SLENDER, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Thou art the Mars of malecontents: I second thee; troop on.
Since his addiction was to courses vain,
To pardon him that hath from nature stolen
I true! how now! what wicked deem is this?
Go to, then; your considerate stone.
If Signior Leonato be her father, she would not
Have a care of your entertainments: there is a
Our hearts receive your warnings.
Until the queen his mistress bury it.
Nor never write, regreet, nor reconcile
Or if thou canst not, O, for shame, for shame,
Of Lucius, son to old Andronicus;
Prophet may you be!
What say'st thou to me now? speak once again.
Are the indentures drawn? shall we be gone?
Go to, sir; you weigh equally; a feather will turn
What is your parentage?
ANTIPHOLUS
Hitting a grosser quality, is cried up
Have broke their backs with laying manors on 'em
Thieves! thieves!
Than the rich-jewel'd of Darius,
seems to cast water on the burning bear,
In faith, I'll break thy little finger, Harry,
Villain, I say, knock me here soundly.
Enter HELENA
That hardly can I cheque my eyes from tears.
eye but such an eye would spy out such a quarrel?
She hears herself.
I know what 'tis to love;
Yea, without stop, didst let thy heart consent,
Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt
That stands on tricks when I am undisposed:
Exeunt KING LEAR and CORDELIA, guarded
Better far off than near, be ne'er the near.
Re-enter MARCIUS, bleeding, assaulted by the enemy
Most noble sir,
After a storm; quaff'd off the muscadel
Pucelle or puzzel, dolphin or dogfish,
Sad tidings bring I to you out of France,
But be thou mild and blush not at my shame,
Now beat them hence; why do you let them stay?
That you might see your shadow. I have heard,
So it must fall out
For strangers to my nature. I am yet
I would have had them writ more movingly.
Exeunt
that you frame the season for your own harvest.
If speaking, why, a vane blown with all winds;
For this will out, and here I must not stay.
Aside
To rid us of the fear we have of him.
When he by night lay bathed in maiden blood.
Each fair instalment, coat, and several crest,
Unless the Lady Bona quit his pain.
Come to the Capitol.
Knowing I know thy love to Theseus?
By Caius Marcius Coriolanus, whom
Your husband so much sweat. Cominius,
From that it is disposed: therefore it is meet
The very head and front of my offending
If you apply yourself to our intents,
Unmannerly intruder as thou art!
That Cloten, whose love-suit hath been to me
I'll haste the writer and withal
But was not this nigh shore?
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
The Lord Northumberland, his son young Henry Percy,
I do not think he fears death.
Shake patiently my great affliction off:
Many will swoon when they do look on blood.
Submit thee, boy.
You laugh when boys or women tell their dreams;
will be king and queen--save our graces!--and
Shall we at last conclude effeminate peace?
aucun prisonnier, neanmoins, pour les ecus que vous
Many good morrows to your majesty;
O good sir!
ANTIPHOLUS
And she a fair divided excellence,
nothing, for we may live to have need of such a
But what o' that? Go, you that banish'd him;
And means to give you battle presently.
I will discharge thee ere I go from thee:
Most sacrilegious murder hath broke ope
To whom we all rest generally beholding.
Purpose to answer what thou canst object.
Know that our griefs are risen to the top,
And ye that on the sands with printless foot
other hour, I should derive much from't; for,
But that I am as well begot, my liege,--
Not on a band, but on a stronger thing;
And flourish'd after, I'ld not do't; but since
The noise was here. Ha! no more moving?
heels and your heart both in an instant.
Where most you owe obedience?
The sailors sought for safety by our boat,
Stoop with oppression of their prodigal weight:
Your bounty, virtue, fair humility:
renown made it not stir, was pleased to let him seek
'Shall I bid him go, and spare not?'
Unless I prove false traitor to myself.
If you will see her: now, by my faith and honour,
And with a silk thread plucks it back again,
Thy speech had alter'd it. Hold, here's gold for thee:
'Tis done like Hector; but securely done,
My countryman,--a Roman by a Roman
Is guilty of a several bastardy,
With his sword drawn; foam'd at the mouth, and swore,
Out of his free love, hath presented to you
To LUCENTIO
And I was ta'en for him, and he for me,
Than you expect: unseal this letter soon;
Or some about him near, have, out of malice
Would say your head and butt were head and horn.
Marry, and amen, how sound is she asleep!
Your worship, sir; or else I mistook.
Hang him, dishonest rascal! I would all of the same
who, God bless the mark, is a kind of devil; and, to
That you do charge men with. Stand no more off,
Who ambles Time withal?
Cannot pursue us. If thou lovest me then,
At your own house; there he unarms him.
of this wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn.
I am appointed him to murder you.
Hail, royal prince!
They say all lovers swear more performance than they
And humble service till the point of death.
And on this north side win this cape of land;
Exceedingly well read, and profited
Exit Lord
Hard-favour'd Richard? Richard, where art thou?
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse:
And those that leave their valiant bones in France,
Lives like a drunken sailor on a mast,
By sea and land I'll fight: or I will live,
That keep her from her rest.
Of Murray, Angus, and Menteith:
Say I fear'd Caesar, honour'd him and loved him.
And thou shalt read when mine begin to dazzle.
Have words to bid you, and shall find it so
I pray thee, let me look on that again.
O cunning, how I got it!--nay, some marks
there was but one way; for his nose was as sharp as
Now, if this suit lay in Bianco's power,
That hast no less deserved, nor must be known
Princes and counties! Surely, a princely testimony,
It sorts well with your fierceness.
For standing by when Richard stabb'd her son.
Well, masters, we hear our charge: let us go sit here
Even by the rule of that philosophy
For in the marches here we heard you were,
'Tis true, my brother's daughter's queen of Tunis;
If it were so, I might have let alone
to-morrow?
Is either slain or wounded dangerously;
So I by that; it is my day, my life.
As wicked dew as e'er my mother brush'd
I'll serve thee true and faithfully till then.
This I must say,
And not be all day neither.
Looking at the jewel
And I beseech your majesty to make it
I serve thee not.
state totters.
riding wagers,
No harm, I trust, is done?
Unto Southampton do we shift our scene.
Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me; do not, Phebe;
ANTIPHOLUS
Now, by mine honour, which is yet mine own,
She moves
O God, that Somerset, who in proud heart
Distinction should be rich in. Where? how lived You?
I would my husband would meet him in this shape: he
Write loyal cantons of contemned love
Many receipts he gave me: chiefly one.
That Angelo's a murderer; is 't not strange?
And told thee to what purpose and what end.
Know, sir, that I am call'd Hortensio.
Descend, and keep your words.
O, wilt thou leave me so unsatisfied?
And machination ceases. Fortune love you.
Nor the division of a battle knows
Madam, my lord your father would speak with you.
With oaths of love, at last, if promise last,
If he should scorn me so apparently.
Such things as might offend the weakest spleen
BISHOP
ANTIPHOLUS
Past hope, and in despair; that way, past grace.
country, there be nothing compelled from the
How I did thrive in this fair lady's love,
Already are i' the court.
That gave me public leave to speak of him:
glosses, being rather new-dyed than stained with
The deed you undertake is damnable.
come by him where he stands, by ones, by twos, and
Receiveth as the sea, nought enters there,
Working so grossly in a natural cause,
Exeunt
Beats him away. Exit third Servingman
The mariners say how thou hast disposed
Think upon what hath chanced, and, at more time,
Exeunt Pirates with MARINA
you, and you shall be married to-morrow.
But not every man patient after the noble temper of
Properly ours.
greatness back?
And now ingratitude makes it worse than stealth.
Say, if my father render fair return,
The execution of it shall make known.
May plod it in a week, why may not I
Thou know'st no less but all; I have unclasp'd
Indeed, the French may lay twenty French crowns to
Now, by my sword,--
Is set afire by thine own ignorance,
He.
A trespass that doth vex my grieved soul
'Tis not enough our foes are this time fled,
Demand the like.
Were nothing but to waste night, day and time.
Or else you famish; that's a threefold death.
And brought in matter that should feed this fire;
money in thy purse. These Moors are changeable in
Shall break into a hundred thousand flaws,
Exit
Hold, Toby; on thy life I charge thee, hold!
Where is the gentleman that was with her?
it.
Where is he? call him hither.
As I stood here below, methought his eyes
Thou art the damned doorkeeper to every
Into a thousand that I have forgotten.
Exit
You i' the camlet, get up o' the rail;
The tyranny of the open night's too rough
Shall we go see the reliques of this town?
The rest stand all aloof, and bark at him.
Katharine Queen of England,  and c.
And lawful meaning in a lawful act,
Madam, so thrive I in my enterprise
For here the Trojans taste our dear'st repute
What's her name in the cap?
You have a quick ear.
Enter AENEAS
Which, like a taper in some monument,
To prick us to redress? what other bond
JULIET wakes
For I am fresh of spirit and resolved
That noseless, handless, hack'd and chipp'd, come to him,
knows more of Anne's mind than I do; nor can do more
Tidings, as swiftly as the posts could run,
On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour?
It waves me still.
So happy be the issue, brother England,
I call thee coward! I'll see thee damned ere I call
That fair for which love groan'd for and would die,
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Go to; I say you shall.
Upon agreement, of swift Severn's flood;
The other yet may rise against their force.
Take not, good cousin, further than you should.
Have sold their lives unto the house of York;
With Lady Margery, your midwife there,
In so high a style, Margaret, that no man living
women, the virginal palms of your daughters, or with
Do you mark that?
At the next word: no more of 'worthy lord!'
I fear me you but warm the starved snake,
Favours, by Jove that thunders!
The other his pale cheeks, methinks, presenteth:
Yet, notwithstanding such a strait edict,
[Kneeling]  Long live Queen Margaret, England's
For live I will not, if my father die.
I, her frail son, amongst my brethren mortal,
In his own change, or by ill officers,
That had a royal lover, took his hint;
And he that got it, sentenced; a young man
You will not own it.
When we shall hap to give 't them.
To choke it in the utterance. So our virtues
Forbad my tongue to speak of Mortimer;
Wrench it open;
'Gainst him whose wrong gives edge unto the swords
thus; and then the people fell a-shouting.
And writ as little beard.
But to torment you with my bitter tongue!
penitent, as thou callest him, and reconciled king,
If it were done when 'tis done, then 'twere well
not: his disgrace is to be called boy; but his
Thus did Mark Antony bid me fall down;
I have some marks of yours upon my pate,
A Florentine more kind and honest.
Stood heir to the first. Now, sir, be judge yourself,
Be hang'd up for example at their doors:
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this,
Shows a ring
discretion, and I will right myself like a soldier.
Set forth in your pursuit.
Exeunt BASSIANUS and MARCUS with LAVINIA
Our holy lives must win a new world's crown,
Therefore he will be, Timon:
And would not, but in fury, fright my youth:
Look on't again I dare not.
Who by his prowess conquered all France:
Aboard our dancing boat; make swift the pangs
Indeed, no, by your patience; I'll not over the
Let me know the point.
Been loose, this day they had been lost. Such joy
Nay, to be perjured, which is worst of all;
And any thing that may not misbecome
With an eye of green in't.
Now do I long to hear how you were found;
Youngling, learn thou to make some meaner choice:
I have forgot why I did call thee back.
For in the temple by and by with us
Let's kiss and part, for we have much to do.
A holy prophetess new risen up,
Throw in the frozen bosoms of our part
And to obey shall be in me remorse,
With all my wits, my pains and strong endeavours,
And mock our eyes with air: thou hast seen
Men fear'd the French would prove perfidious,
That came too lag to see him buried.
Fill'd it with cursing cries and deep exclaims.
A cur can lend three thousand ducats?' Or
And suffer'd my command.
To draw my answer from thy articles?
virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale?
I take thee at thy word:
But why, why, why?
Sent by a consul to me, should not sooner
Exit
Fine apparition! My quaint Ariel,
The little strength that I have, I would it were with you.
How now, sweet Frank! why art thou melancholy?
glover's paring-knife?
They fight
would 'twere done!
Exeunt
To show him what a beggar his heart is,
To SOMERSET
Upon my life, Lamond.
Which comes to me in name of fault, I must not
Peace, ho! Hear Antony. Most noble Antony!
The prince's espials have informed me
To have a godly peace concluded of
No other obligation! By my life,
O queen of queens! how far dost thou excel,
Say, Katharine Queen of England, come into the court.
My lord, I must confess I know this woman:
A way, if it take right, in spite of fortune
Which I have sumptuously re-edified:
window, for all this, There will come a Christian
Thou'rt i' the right. Go, sir, rub your chain with
Of Athens here, my lord.
In doing this for's country: athwart the lane,
And hews down oaks with rushes. Hang ye! Trust Ye?
Engage it to the trial, if thou darest.
Exeunt
To turn all beauty into thoughts of harm,
Let her have your voices.
A tucket sounds
For what, I pray thee?
By so much is the wonder in extremes.
Why,
But nakedness, thou detestable town!
Shall make their harbour in our town, till we
While night's black agents to their preys do rouse.
What have you lost by losing of this day?
tell him my mind.
To see how God in all his creatures works!
It seems you know not, then, so much as we:
We'll answer.
Pertaining thereunto, as fights and fireworks,
And with another knot, five-finger-tied,
Enter APEMANTUS
Then let them anatomize Regan; see what breeds
Else wherefore breathe I in a Christian land?
city's cost, the pissing-conduit run nothing but
For, being green, there is great hope of help.
And see how I regarded Caius Cassius.
By the good aid that I of you shall borrow,
I most fehemently desire you you will also look that
Gives the letter to EDMUND
Addition of his envy! Say, good Caesar,
For further satisfying, under her breast--
My wife to France: from whence, set forth in pomp,
My goods, my lands, my reputation;
For the rain it raineth every day.
Exit JAQUES
But tell the Dauphin I will keep my state,
Pardon me, madam, for I meant not so.
Et vous aussi; votre serviteur.
Re-enter two other Citizens
speed well in it, the duke shall both speak of it.
Uncles of Gloucester and of Winchester,
They prosper best of all when I am thence.
As the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled.
Or else to heaven she heaves them for revenge.
God-den to your worship, good Captain James.
SCENE V. The same. A street.
As punishment for his most wicked life.
We are in God's hand, brother, not in theirs.
Promised no less to them?
Though banish'd, yet a trueborn Englishman.
Take the boy to you: he so troubles me,
And formless ruin of oblivion;
And here remain with your uncertainty!
Even for that I thank you:
But sorrow, that is couch'd in seeming gladness,
This is strange: your father's in some passion
How was it?
fellow of it.
One hundred twenty six: added to these,
Our king and company; the next, our ship--
For it excels your first: or if it did not,
And dreaming night will hide our joys no longer,
Say 'Thus did Banquo.'
He waged me with his countenance, as if
But what of this?
Doth weep to see his grandsire's heaviness.
Hear you, sir?
Who should withhold me?
If they were known, as the suspect is great,
ACT V
[Within]  Who calls?
With strife to please you, day exceeding day:
'Tis a villain, sir,
Care no more to clothe and eat;
Was't you that did so oft contrive to kill him?
She writes so to you, doth she?
A conqueror that will pray in aid for kindness,
Might corrupt minds procure knaves as corrupt
In general synod 'take away her power;
And pierce the inmost centre of the earth:
My lord, you'll bear us company?
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
Such commendations as becomes a maid,
And shape to win grace though he had no wit.
Else one self mate and mate could not beget
A serpent stung me; so the whole ear of Denmark
My lord, cheer up your spirits: our foes are nigh,
Lest it make you choleric and purchase me another
Therefore I do advise you, take this note:
I am as I have spoken.
Nay, yet there's more in this:
Very well, my lord.
If that young Arthur be not gone already,
take my death, I never meant him any ill, nor the
And natural graces that extinguish art;
Either be ruled by me, or I will make you--
I tell thee she is: and therefore make her grave
O thou dull Moor! that handkerchief thou speak'st of
Saw you the cardinal?
Would thou wouldst burst!
He's now in Florence.
Keep him out.
Almost each pang a death.
SCENE II. Imogen's bedchamber in Cymbeline's palace:
Commend me to thy brother, Edmund York.
The gods do this in shame of cowardice:
How long have you been of this profession?
What you would work me to, I have some aim:
As I come out: this action I now go on
Exeunt all but MONTAGUE, LADY MONTAGUE, and BENVOLIO
Nay, hear you, Kate: in sooth you scape not so.
For speculation turns not to itself,
Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.
The ancient Roman honour more appears
It is so varied, too; for it was proclaimed 'virgin.'
Posters of the sea and land,
When you depart, and save your thanks. How say you?
This hand, fast wound about thy coal-black hair
[Pointing to his head and shoulder]
Why, thou owest God a death.
To weep that you live as ye do makes pity in your
To your professed bosoms I commit him
His purpose surfeiting, he sends a warrant
distemper yours; therefore I shall crave of you your
By nature proved an enemy to the flock,
Bestow thy fawning smiles on equal mates,
By heaven, I love thee better than myself;
Cassius from bondage will deliver Cassius:
Sirrah, get thee to Plashy, to my sister Gloucester;
Fie, fie! you counterfeit, you puppet, you!
Salisbury and Warwick are no simple peers.
Antioch, farewell! for wisdom sees, those men
Why, what concerns his freedom unto me?
Both one and other he denies me now.
To such a sudden flood of mutiny.
Tybalt is gone, and Romeo banished;
things for bird-bolts that you deem cannon-bullets:
Behold the window of my heart, mine eye,
And both preposterous; therefore, not 'good lord.'
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
Which holds not colour with the time, nor does
Brought my too diligent ear: for several virtues
Nor how my father would enforce me marry
If we be conquer'd, let men conquer us,
That Norfolk lies: here do I throw down this,
entail from all remainders, and a perpetual
I tell thee what: get thee to church o' Thursday,
Exeunt
Of both the Sicils and Jerusalem,
Come not within the measure of my wrath;
By the compulsion of their ordinance
No; for my manly heart doth yearn.
Myself, as far as I could well discern
No more; the text is foolish.
To mourn a mischief that is past and gone
the king my old master must be relieved. There is
Next, Caius Cassius, do I take your hand;
My lungs began to crow like chanticleer,
You or any man living may be drunk! at a time, man.
First Serving-man	Ay, and the very parings of our nails
Against the invulnerable clouds of heaven;
But that one half which is unsatisfied,
In it be memorised.
And in your search spend your adventurous worth;
O Antony!
Enter TRANIO and HORTENSIO
Thou wast provoked by thy bloody mind.
Judge you, my Lord of Warwick, then, between us.
Be quiet, or--More light, more light! For shame!
His army is a ragged multitude
to me; for indeed three such antics do not amount to
Sacred and sweet was all I saw in her.
Bait the hook well; this fish will bite.
Enter DUKE ORSINO, VIOLA, CURIO, and others
Now is he total gules; horridly trick'd
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
Nay, speak thy mind; and let him ne'er speak more
Hang the trifle, woman! take the honour. What is
But bent all offices to honour her.
Than did the fault before it was so patch'd.
Foul stigmatic, that's more than thou canst tell.
Fare thee well: commend me to them both: there's
And as my duty springs, so perish they
My honest lads, I will tell you what I am about.
Well seen in music, to instruct Bianca;
For gazing on your beams, fair sun, being by.
Dearer than eye-sight, space, and liberty;
Whose salt imagination yet hath wrong'd
O, look, Titinius, look, the villains fly!
Let not the hours of this ungodly day
But, gentle people, give me aim awhile,
Or bend one wrinkle on my sovereign's face.
If ever we are nature's, these are ours; this thorn
he would quickly have the gift of a grave.
But say, my lord, it were not register'd,
Musicians, O, musicians, 'Heart's ease, Heart's
Where should this music be? i' the air or the earth?
the dukes fall upon the king.
Exit Messenger
Hath fear'd the valiant: by my love I swear
Verbatim to rehearse the method of my pen:
There's sap in't yet. The next time I do fight,
England ne'er lost a king of so much worth.
I had thought, my lord, to have learn'd his health of you.
Into her womb convey sterility!
Thump then and I flee.
Come, Master Shallow; come, son Slender, in.
None about Caesar trust but Proculeius.
SCENE VI. Near the camp of Cominius.
the world, in the disciplines of the pristine wars
may we barricado it against him?
Thou show'st a noble vessel: what's thy name?
Then hie you hence to Friar Laurence' cell;
But beg one favour at thy gracious hand,
If I were bound to divine of this unity, I would
No, madam; it is too sharp.
What life is in that, to be the death of this marriage?
Your sauciness will jest upon my love
the same food, hurt with the same weapons, subject
We'll thwack him hence with distaffs.
Or mons, the hill.
Her enemies' ranks,--I must withdraw and weep
The younger rises when the old doth fall.
With that, they all did tumble on the ground,
Enter, PERICLES and SIMONIDES at one door, with  Attendants; a Messenger meets them, kneels, and  gives PERICLES a letter: PERICLES shows it  SIMONIDES; the Lords kneel to him. Then enter  THAISA with child, with LYCHORIDA a nurse. The  KING shows her the letter; she rejoices: she and  PERICLES takes leave of her father, and depart with  LYCHORIDA and their Attendants. Then exeunt SIMONIDES and the rest
Which by no means we may extenuate--
But it becomes me well enough, does't not?
Thou dost confirm his happiness for ever.
Tell them your feats; whilst they with joyful tears
Till we can clear these ambiguities,
A table full of welcome make scarce one dainty dish.
I will be found most cunning in my patience;
because I have no power to be kind: and tell him
Of pretty, fond, adoptious christendoms,
There she appeared indeed; or my reporter devised
First, in this forest, let us do those ends
Then to cart with Rosalind.
That such a hideous trumpet calls to parley
Sweet honey Greek, tempt me no more to folly.
Yet this before my father's majesty--
his grounds of faith that all that look on him love
I do not fly, but advantageous care
That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
To see him walk before a lady and to bear her fan!
To have some conference with your grace alone.
had rather it would please you I might be whipt.
O cruel, irreligious piety!
You put sharp weapons in a madman's hands.
graze and my lambs suck.
Me well; which is the prescript praise and
He knows that you embrace not Antony
I love thee not a jar o' the clock behind
A precious ring, a ring that I must use
Full of rose-water and bestrew'd with flowers,
That by their witchcraft thus have marked me.
This might have been prevented and made whole
SCENE I. Venice. A street.
Put not your worthy rage into your tongue;
All liberal reason I will yield unto.
What, John Rugby! John! what, John, I say!
There is your money that I had to keep.
SCENE VII. London. The palace.
In such an honour named. What's more to do,
Is colder tidings, yet they must be told.
Pardon me, good father; it is against my oath.
Falls in a trance
As I shall find the time to friend, I will.
Yea, the whole consistory of Rome. You charge me
Kind gods, forgive me that, and prosper him!
Most reverend signior, do you know my voice?
Daughter to Charlemain, who was the son
Will then be pang'd by me. Prithee, dispatch:
Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled?
Than your own weak-hinged fancy, something savours
Sir, my gracious lord,
Kill me to-morrow: let me live to-night!
With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,
Let's further think of this;
Though it be pity to see such a sight, it well
And if I do not by thy hand, thou art
What wouldst thou of us, Trojan? make demand.
Not half an hour before.
As I foretold you, were all spirits and
Be-monster not thy feature. Were't my fitness
If black, why, Nature, drawing of an antique,
O'ermount the lark. The Marchioness of Pembroke!
You are three men of sin, whom Destiny,
The death of Cassio to be undertook
But in a dream of friendship?
From those that wish the downfall of our house!
And I prithee tell me, how dost thou find the
The untented woundings of a father's curse
If wealthily, then happily in Padua.
Exit
Latin, Praeclarissimus filius noster Henricus, Rex
Whose hollow womb inherits nought but bones.
I am not furnish'd with the present money;
not but to do myself much right, or you much shame.
So, bring us to our palace; where we'll show
Thou liest; I can.
O Warwick, Warwick! that Plantagenet,
But I can give thee more:
Yielded the town: he is retired to Antium.
This his good melancholy oft began,
But that still use of grief makes wild grief tame,
For he went sickly forth: and take good note
Think not that Henry shall be so deposed.
Will not this malice, Somerset, be left?
I pray you, think you question with the Jew:
But dead, thy kingdom cannot buy my breath.
Good fellow, tell us here the circumstance,
But repetition of what thou hast marr'd;
O good Horatio, what a wounded name,
And with submissive loyalty of heart
Sir, you of Troy, call you yourself AEneas?
We are to reap the harvest of his son.
Because he should have swallowed me too: and when I
And who doth lead them but a paltry fellow,
To this extremity. Thy husband knew it all.
Let us go.
demure travel of regard, telling them I know my
That this foul deed shall smell above the earth
I shall not want false witness to condemn me,
Take thou no care; it shall be heeded.
O, I would thou didst,
Even on their knees and hands, let him slip down,
No more of that; I have noted it well. Go you, and
Alarum. Enter a Son that has killed his father, dragging in the dead body
And if mine arm be heaved in the air,
What means this scorn, thou most untoward knave?
Enter POMPEY, MENECRATES, and MENAS, in warlike manner
The last leave of thee takes my weeping eye.
The gates of mercy shall be all shut up,
Attend his majesty!
Worcester, get thee gone; for I do see
What may it be? You do not doubt my faith, sir?
stings, our unbitted lusts, whereof I take this that
Master, some show to welcome us to town.
Speak England first, that hath been forward first
A thing inspired; and, not consulting, broke
Thy brothers are condemn'd, and dead by this.
But both of you were vow'd Duke Humphrey's foes,
Exit
Poor harmless fly,
Are not the speedy scouts return'd again,
To appease an angry god.
O God, I have an ill-divining soul!
I never tempted her with word too large;
ANTIPHOLUS
It is a thing most precious. But for her,
should find
SCENE I. KING JOHN'S palace.
Lay by all nicety and prolixious blushes,
For this is from the present--how you take
back thy business there: whereupon I command thee to
the adventure, our crows shall fare the better
So let them have their answers every one:
O, belike his majesty hath some intent
how much he is unworthy so good a lady.
Exeunt
And she will tell you who your fellow is
Though they would swear down each particular saint,
Than other princesses can that have more time
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
monstrous till his fellow fault came to match it.
By spells and medicines bought of mountebanks;
Re-enter MACBETH and LENNOX, with ROSS
Where is John Talbot? Pause, and take thy breath;
Although this lord of weak remembrance, this,
lord and my niece confirms no less: therefore this
acquainted him with the cause in controversy between
Within
Lorenzo and Salerio, welcome hither;
Plays in the right hand, thus: but tell him,
footboy or a gentleman's lackey.
you three will but minister such assistance as I
[To OLIVIA]  So comes it, lady, you have been mistook:
I would prevail, if prayers might prevail,
To pluck him headlong from the usurped throne.
I cannot daub it further.
Let me have your express opinions
In aught he merit not.
In your protectorship you did devise
I'll tell thee more of this another time:
But mightier crimes are laid unto your charge,
Deputing Cassio in his government.
Enter the Ghost of LADY ANNE
O, let us hence; I stand on sudden haste.
DON
Exeunt LUCENTIO, BIANCA, and BIONDELLO
Words against me? this is a good friar, belike!
'Tis with cares.
eat; go to, follow.
And I.
Under the allowance of your great aspect,
Of these Plantagenets, Henry and Edward,
For ere the glass, that now begins to run,
Some consequence yet hanging in the stars
And here comes Claudio's pardon.
good clothes: there's no further necessity of
Be thou assured, good Cassio, I will do
Plant those that have revolted in the van,
Down therefore and beg mercy of the duke.
That you a world of curses undergo,
good nor harm: but he seeks their hate with greater
Enter QUEEN MARGARET
Indeed, madam, I seem so.
Go with my brothers to my lords of England:
No tearing, lady: I perceive you know it.
Half-blooded fellow, yes.
So please your grace, the packet is not come
What dangerous action, stood it next to death,
with garlands!
I can hook to me: say that she were gone,
And with your puissant arm renew their feats:
And beauty's crest becomes the heavens well.
her: that if she love me, I charge her to love
The duchess, by his subornation,
More than the locking-up the spirits a time,
Devesting them for bed; and then, but now--
And there is nothing left remarkable
Is worse in kings than beggars. My dear lord!
I' faith, or I either?
And many giddy people flock to him.
Take no offence that I would not offend you:
would he were, for I am now so far in offence with
And brokes with all that can in such a suit
What though the common people favour him,
That will not suffer you to square yourselves,
Here, Diomed, keep this sleeve.
all outward behaviors seemed ever to abhor.
one, they will beat us; for they bear them on their
And by the honourable tomb he swears,
Went all afoot in summer's scalding heat,
Exit LUCIUS
And enterprises of great pith and moment
Marry, sir, the letter, very orderly; having nothing
At your command. Know you the character?
Eight hundred five. Besides, their writers say,
If heaven will take the present at our hands.
For, hearing this, I must perforce compound
Not what he knew I was: he makes me angry;
Come, sirrah.
And maintain such a quarrel openly?
Exit Lady
Enter BALTHASAR with Music
I will knead him; I'll make him supple.
Our title to the crown and only claim
Hark, Tranio! thou may'st hear Minerva speak.
Why, let her except, before excepted.
abbreviated ne. This is abhominable,--which he
Harry, I do not only marvel where thou spendest thy
Whatever I shall think.
For though abundantly they lack discretion,
In what vile part of this anatomy
Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel,
I mean our princely father, Duke of York.
Hast thou, according to thy oath and band,
Enter ROSENCRANTZ
I would I were as sure of a good dinner.
Lo, she is one of this confederacy!
And in no sense is meet or amiable.
We shall be much unfurnished for this time.
Why dost thou seek me out?
I'll say as they say and persever so,
And all the budding honours on thy crest
To please the king I did; to please myself
Hold me a foe;
To him, Sir Topas.
There's something else to do: hush, and be mute,
Why, no, boy; nothing can be made out of nothing.
When first they put the name of king upon me,
You say, that you'll have Phebe, if she will?
Neglecting an attempt of ease and gain,
Who 'twas that so endured, with his strong arms
Make such unquiet, that the ship
Reply not in how many fathoms deep
Where others tell steps with me.
our sheep: and would you have us kiss tar? The
We breathe too long: come, cousin Westmoreland,
She shall not strike Dame Eleanor unrevenged.
Shall pass between us: ere long you are like to hear,
With her her niece, the Lady Blanch of Spain;
And came to the eye o' the king: wherein was read,
And he her dieter.
Exeunt WORCESTER and VERNON
Here, take away this dish.
Ay, noble lord.
So call the field to rest; and let's away,
Even to the guilt or the purgation.
When ye were so indeed.
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and ROMEO
Look, when I serve him so, he takes it ill.
Would not a pair of these have bred, sir?
And, in thy closet pent up, rue my shame,
Where have you lurk'd, that you make doubt of it?
him.
A long-tongued babbling gossip? no, lords, no:
Room, ho! Tell Antony, Brutus is ta'en.
Enter HORTENSIO
Themselves when they be felt.
Gets into the basket; they cover him with foul linen
commiseration on thy heroical vassal! The
This gallant Hotspur, this all-praised knight,
The best is past. Brother, my lord the duke,
The ship is under sail, and here she comes amain.
[To TAMORA]  Now, madam, are you prisoner to
Of contradiction: being once chafed, he cannot
I must catechise you for it, madonna: good my mouse
Why, sir, cobble you.
tell thee, I am as well in my wits as any man in Illyria.
His weapons holy saws of sacred writ,
How shall I best convey the ladder thither?
That I account them blessings; for by these
tender juvenal?
To excuse their after wrath: husband, I come:
But little for my profit: can you think, lords,
Away, captains! let's get us from the walls;
I would I might go to hell among the rogues. And so
That I do fawn on men and hug them hard
PROLOGUE
Behold the poor remains, alive and dead!
Which hoxes honesty behind, restraining
Only for bearing burdens, and sore blows
But with his last attempt he wiped it out;
Tucket
Thither I must, although against my will,
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair:
Though forfeiters you cast in prison, yet
Osric, who brings back to him that you attend him in
but my Nell would not have it so. How chance my
I know not; but I think it was not he.
Your faithful servant: I dare lay mine honour
And, hark! they shout for joy.
Till you did make him misinterpret me,
Thaliard,
In obstinate condolement is a course
Of the none-sparing war? and is it I
Or senseless speaking or a speaking such
Shall pass on thy approof. Most noble Antony,
Peep through each part of him: whence has he that,
Fond man, remember that thou hast a wife;
Enter DROMIO of Syracuse
And blow it to the source from whence it came:
Not bolds the king, with others, whom, I fear,
And George, of Clarence: Warwick, as ourself,
Enter Host
By him that made me, I'll maintain my words
To the majestic cedar join'd, whose issue
His grace looks cheerfully and smooth to-day;
We charge you, on allegiance to ourself,
I have none: do not talk to me, Emilia;
fighting, and I must go up and down like a cock that
Good fellows all,
We are like to have the overthrow again.
'Tis ten to one it maim'd you two outright.
Re-enter Servant with boots
SCENE II. Saint Alban's.
What power is in Agrippa,
Why, well.
Am I like such a fellow?
see her chamber-window entered, even the night
and what he hath scanted men in hair he hath given them in wit.
Let's see these pockets: the letters that he speaks of
approbation.
Be York the next that must be bankrupt so!
Why then,
Into Hey nonny, nonny.
you lie.  What a lack-brain is this! By the Lord,
It plucks out brains and all: but my Muse labours,
Thou desperate pilot, now at once run on
The armourer of my heart: false, false; this, this.
Which, without note, here's many else have done,--
Wounds, friends, and what else dear that is consumed
He falls forward
Thou canst not say I did it: never shake
That your poor friends must woo your company?
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
Enter AEMILIUS
With all graces wide-enlarged:
I thank you for your music, gentlemen.
Bred his hopes out of.
Join with me to forbid him her resort;
For any benefit that points to me,
Makes the survivor heir of all.
one tear: he is a stone, a very pebble stone, and
Can any thing be made of this?
And so offend him; for I tell you, sirs,
She gives it out that you shall marry hey:
That so degenerate a strain as this
They say, poor gentleman, he's much distract.
Why then you must. Will you put out mine eyes?
Follow I must; I cannot go before,
He is gone, indeed.
Will you go along with us?
I will no further chide you.
That thou shalt know. Trojan, he is awake,
them in my forehead: and let me be vilely painted,
To bear a hard opinion of his truth:
Thy friends suspect for traitors while thou livest,
And better used, would make her sainted spirit
Venetian admittance.
be still, drum! for your manager is in love; yea,
Leave me, or tarry, Edward will be king,
You have enscheduled briefly in your hands.
Pray, sir, by your good favour,--for surely, sir, a
That I may pour my spirits in thine ear;
And as my love is sized, my fear is so:
Forced me to seek delays for them and me.
Exit
Lucius preconsul: and to you the tribunes,
passion without some instruction. It is not words
little blood they do, I'll be a curer of madmen.
But if the gods themselves did see her then
A sail, a sail!
That handkerchief which I so loved and gave thee
This is too heavy, let me see another.
Second a villain and a murderer?
Produce their bodies, be they alive or dead:
I'll weep what's left away, and weeping die.
That is, a fair young maid that yet wants baptism,
My advocation is not now in tune;
Foul-spoken coward, that thunder'st with thy tongue,
And all this day an unaccustom'd spirit
Launcelot, my boy.
degree of a squire.
guiltless and of free disposition, is to take those
Then pardon me for reprehending thee,
Hector is dead; there is no more to say.
being a beast, she would have me; but that she,
Did you assay him?
If I had given you this at over-night,
Art thou my son?
What handkerchief?
Not by a public minister of justice,
Ye light o' love, with your heels! then, if your
Leave him to my displeasure. Edmund, keep you our
Would I were with him! He would always say--
Is this the Lady Cressid?
Break thou in pieces and consume to ashes,
You shall advise me in all for Cleopatra.
Let me have men about me that are fat;
Read here, young Arthur.
Than in the pride and salt scorn of his eyes,
Gently to hear, kindly to judge, our play.
If I break time, or flinch in property
troth, we that have good wits have much to answer
Aaron will have his soul black like his face.
Pray, write down, Borachio. Yours, sirrah?
England, I could find in my heart.
Makes me forgetful?
Prepare her, wife, against this wedding-day.
dares, being dared.
is it a spare life, look you, it fits my humour well;
played their parts with Beatrice; and then the two
Interest of territory, cares of state,--
You shall ask pardon of his majesty.
He cannot be compell'd to't--once remove
Or be accused of folly. I shall tell you
Exit BARDOLPH
I care not what, so it be wholesome food.
The son of Clarence have I pent up close;
You men of Kent,--
Exeunt
The pap of Pyramus;
will prove a cockney. I prithee now, ungird thy
It is, my lord.
How now, my metal of India!
From all the slaughters, wretch, that thou hast done!
And they shall do their office. So, be gone;
Turn, slave, and fight.
To stain my cousin with: one doth not know
When Helen is a maid again, and his.
And we'll pray for you.
Particular addition. from the bill
Comfort my sister, cheer her, call her wife:
Kissing TITUS
A ripe age. Is thy name William?
Give ear to his motions, Master Slender: I will
And by that music let us all embrace;
For such a petty war: his soldiership
The doors are broke.
He question'd me; amongst the rest, demanded
handsome fellow! Come, thou shalt go home, and
No, indeed, sir, not of a pin; you are therein in
As 'tis no better reckon'd, but of those
I am so lated in the world, that I
Their purposes toward Cyprus. Signior Montano,
Where it best fits to be, in Henry's hand.
The stone's too hard to come by.
How fares my gracious lord?
Be call'd our mother, but our grave; where nothing,
I know him well: you are welcome for his sake.
If you have any justice, any pity;
My lord, kneel down with me; Lavinia, kneel;
This is the tune of our catch, played by the picture
And till I root out their accursed line
To tender objects, but he in heat of action
Unto a woman, happy but for me,
Nay, but hear me.
before you came; for look here what I found on a
The scope of justice; till now myself and such
To entrap the wisest. Therefore, thou gaudy gold,
A parley with the Duke of Burgundy!
How now, my lord!
This man shall set me packing:
Have left me issueless; and your father's blest,
Or manage it to part these men with me.
Yet of your royal presence I'll adventure
of mine; and writ to me this other day to turn him
Had he been slain, we should have heard the news;
Concluding 'Stay: not yet.'
To England send him, or confine him where
For the intent and purpose of the law
Grow this to what adverse issue it can, I will put
Or failing so, yet that I put the Moor
Pray God, sir, your wife send you not a worse.
wages followest thy master; thy master for wages
That you must. Will you, upon good dowry, marry her?
Authorized by her grandam. Shame itself!
that, commend me to the court where your lady is,
Holds honour far more precious-dear than life.
Upon  a knife, 'Love me, and leave me not.'
The payment of a hundred thousand crowns;
By leaving earth? comfort me, counsel me.
But do you remember? 'Madam, why laugh you at such
To CRANMER
They must lie there: go carry them; and smear
place till some certain shot be paid and the hostess
Hath made the wizard famous in his death.
To be his evidence now.
I warrant you, madam, we wil l make that sure.
To see a reverend Syracusian merchant,
Thus most invectively he pierceth through
man, I am not for him: therefore, I will even take
Art thou certain this is true? is it most certain?
Be suffer'd to come near him.
shillings an ell. You owe money here besides, Sir
Read the indictment.
Though great ones are their object. 'Tis even so;
Good Master Vernon, I am bound to you,
Why should you sigh, my lord?
respects, makes a beast a man, in some other, a man
To ease the anguish of a torturing hour?
What wert thou, if the King of Naples heard thee?
yet; that you answer to Pyramus: you speak all your
My talk to thee must be how Benedick
the modesty of nature: for any thing so overdone is
there should be terrors in him that he should not
Or have we eaten on the insane root
No? wilt thou not? I like thy armour well;
I have served you ever since I was a child;
Re-enter KATARINA
By your espials were discovered
designs, and of great import indeed, too, but let
never buy and sell out of this word.
No, he's a yeoman that has a gentleman to his son;
By spying and avoiding fortune's malice,
Let fall thy lance: despair, and die!
To strew him o'er and o'er!
Or, when he doom'd this beauty to a grave,
And cleave to no revenge but Lucius.
Furnish you fairly for this interchange:
Never departed more.
you to suspend your indignation against my
where to hide my head: yond same cloud cannot
Four or five women once that tended me?
They are the issue of your loins, my liege,
Let all my sins lack mercy! O my father,
SCENE II. Capulet's orchard.
No, sir; but you have that in your countenance
many I have beheld. I could not but believe she
Show me now, William, some declensions of your pronouns.
The remnant northward, lying off from Trent.
Nor did not with unbashful forehead woo
Need and oppression starveth in thine eyes,
The cost that did conclude it.
Lord, who would live turmoiled in the court,
Welcome, dear cousin, my thoughts' sovereign
My comfort comes along. Break up the court:
Doth love my daughter and she loveth him,
I'll meet. So fare you well: I have left you commands.
What, are they broken?
In some large measure to thy father's death,
As the main point of this our after-meeting,
Considers she my possessions?
not the stop. A good moral, my lord: it is not
Is of a sudden thus advanced in Rome?
habit no loss shall touch her by my company.
up the meat, the two crowns of the egg. When thou
And thank you too; for society, saith the text, is
And in the sentence my own life destroy'd.
The advantage of his absence took the king
Here comes himself to guide you.
And worms will not come to thee.
And therefore comes it that his head is light.
You were half blasted ere I knew you: ha!
Give me Bianca for my patrimony.
Faith, I do: her father bequeathed her to me; and
Nor never did my actions yet commence
So many years ere I shall shear the fleece:
And will at last break out into a flame:
Dies. FLEANCE escapes
Knows not my feeble key of untuned cares?
Well, whiles I am a beggar, I will rail
Have you long sojourned there?
Julietta with child.
Did you perceive
Eros!--I come, my queen:--Eros!--Stay for me:
As for words, whose greatness answers words,
Draws
Therefore be patient, take no note of him:
we'll put you i' the fills. Why do you not speak to
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not;
The very time Aumerle and you did talk.
So,
Exeunt KING LEAR and KENT
Enter ANGELO with the chain
For his advantage that I dearly love.
Here in the churchyard; yet I will adventure.
Full of vexation come I, with complaint
Here sound retreat, and cease our hot pursuit.
I know that voice.
Exeunt
They are.
As under privilege of age to brag
Content with Hermia! No; I do repent
appear stubborn to him; for she incites me to that
And thereupon I drew my sword on you;
To whom the heavens in thy nativity
Sir Hugh send-a you? Rugby, baille me some paper.
Enter Host, DOCTOR CAIUS, and RUGBY
Ay, so we will.
feared any, am vanquished by famine, not by valour.
You boggle shrewdly, every feather stars you.
Let it be so: I do commit his youth
mother, and to Master Peascod, your father. Good
But I do wash his name out of my blood,
Ah, Tranio, what a cruel father's he!
I'll murder all his wardrobe, piece by piece,
To tremble under Titus' threatening looks.
Or, had he heard the heavenly harmony
is carried into the leaguer of the adversaries, when
mistress to carry me in the name of foul clothes to
Cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke.
I fear, for ever: Milan and Naples have
Yes, every man of them, and no man here
'Faith, I must; she'll rail in the street else.
Who, having been praised for bluntness, doth affect
Here comes a parcel of our hopeful booty,
O you kind gods,
And here in sight of Rome to Saturnine,
Men were deceivers ever,
'Your--wife, so I would say--
Unto thy value I will mount myself
fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus
Found it too precious-princely for a grave.
O vanity of sickness! fierce extremes
Still your own foes, deliver you as most
this great world.
For often have you writ to her, and she, in modesty,
Send your trunk to me; it shall safe be kept,
Even then will rush to knowledge. Go: fresh horses!
Arthur Plantagenet, lays most lawful claim
For Banquo's issue have I filed my mind;
For our access, whose hap shall be to have her
Farewell to me, sir, and welcome to you.
such dishes; they are not China dishes, but very
And leave no memory of what it was!
Your wife Octavia, with her modest eyes
What's that to us? The time goes by: away!
This is to feel a tale, not to hear a tale.
Such parting were too petty. Look here, love;
Even now forsake me, and of all my lands
Out of the king's protection. This is my charge.
How now, Sir Proteus! how now, Thurio!
To clap this royal bargain up of peace,
That Lepidus of the triumvirate
It did me good, before the palace gate
do not like her.
With all the cunning manner of our flight,
Exeunt Lords
My lord, I am for you, though it cost me ten
That unicorns may be betray'd with trees,
As his alliance will confirm our peace
The King is sickly, weak and melancholy,
my spiteful execrations. Then there's Achilles, a
'Tis the best brine a maiden can season her praise
Most pretty things to say: ere I could tell him
Away with him to death!
To hear good counsel: O, what learning is!
Nothing so certain as your anchors, who
Who, though they cannot answer my distress,
Are you sick, Hubert? you look pale to-day:
Do you hear, sir?
That, when the brains were out, the man would die,
Let's leave this town; for they are hare-brain'd slaves,
That e'er I proved thee false or fear'd thy faith.
A most incivil one: the wrongs he did me
Shall draw him on to his confusion:
purse, thou? Ah, how the poor world is pestered
Thou rather shalt enforce it with thy smile
So then you hope of pardon from Lord Angelo?
My lips, two blushing pilgrims, ready stand
Let us seem humbler after it is done
Create her child of spleen; that it may live,
[Aside]  Lord Lucius and Lucullus? hum!
That can be with a nimble galliard won;
For the ass to the Jude; give it him:--Jud-as, away!
That you would wear it till your hour of death
Than any thou canst conjure up to-day;
Ho! now you strike like the blind man: 'twas the
it is no matter how witty, so it be eloquent and fun
Enter HERO, MARGARET, and URSULA
O, is this he?
Made you my guardians, my depositaries;
Sirs, take away the duke, and guard him sure.
Thou shalt get kings, though thou be none:
O, he is old and blushes not at death.
There thou prickest her with a thistle.
are yours; so is your diamond too: if I come off,
The seasons alter: hoary-headed frosts
Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee! thou art
me smile, make Hector angry?
sending that way; for it is said, 'God sends a curst
The army of the queen mean to besiege us.
Give him a little earth for charity!'
for, I assure thee, and almost with tears I speak
Married in league, coupled and linked together
His execution sworn.
Gower is a good captain, and is good knowledge and
No, fair princess; he is the general challenger: I
For wrying but a little! O Pisanio!
And he himself wander'd away alone,
I am afraid my daughter will run mad,
That happiness and prime can happy call:
Well, he is gone; and with him go these thoughts.
For want of means, poor rats, had hang'd themselves:
Let it not enter in your mind of love:
And that is, to enjoy thee for my love.
Thou dost approve thyself the very same:
under the hangman: which though it be great pity,
From fasting maids whose minds are dedicate
I blush to think upon this ignomy.
From off this brier pluck a white rose with me.
But I will eat and drink, and sleep as soft
After they heard young Arthur was alive?
Your exposition misinterpreting,
Another way so high a hope that even
Horrible villain! or I'll spurn thine eyes
And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,
Enchased with all the honours of the world?
I'll do thee service for so good a gift.
Most fair return of greetings and desires.
O, what, am I
particulars; wherein every one of us has a single
Speak, good Sicinius.
Go to; farewell. Do you hear, Roderigo?
Wert thou the son of Jupiter and no more
Canst thou bring me to the party?
Frateretto calls me; and tells me
Cupid is no longer an archer: hi s glory shall be
Your high profession spiritual: that again
As ample as myself.
Sir, yonder is your place.
I had rather, forsooth, go before you like a man
Trumpets sound. Enter REIGNIER, below
Honey, you shall be well desired in Cyprus;
ANTIPHOLUS
While sense can keep it on. And, sweetest, fairest,
slept in the contriving of lust, and waked to do it:
Let not thy nurse lie with thee in thy chamber:
Brentford: but that my admirable dexterity of wit,
Put we i' the roll of conquest: still be't yours,
More criminal in thee than it,--so thou
You have beguiled me with a counterfeit
Whispers with BLANCH
you come with your appendix.
By Providence divine.
I up my apes, and away to Saint Peter for the
Attends he here, or no? Lucilius!
as your gesture cries it out, when your brother
Exeunt
Thinking on them, go I unto the Tower.
For suddenly a grievous sickness took him,
For such a business; therefore am I found
I did not then entreat to have her stay;
Something too liberal. Pray thee, take pain
Then thou art damned.
When there is such disorder in my wit.
It useth an enforced ceremony.
twenty, take them all; I'll answer the coinage. Bid
That very time I saw, but thou couldst not,
And they indeed had no cause to mistrust;
My sword, my chariot and my prisoners;
I'll turn my part thereof into thy throat.
What a wretched and peevish fellow is this king of
That Cupid will impose for my neglect
SCENE V. Another part of the field.
I know not, sir.
not such need to hide itself. Let's see: come,
To Julius Caesar's ill-erected tower,
Dogs howl'd, and hideous tempest shook down trees;
And reason to my love is liable.
judgment and reason.
The obligation of our blood forbids
Stars, my lord.
As due to love as thoughts and dreams and sighs,
You bless me, gods!
Let her lie still and dream.
will also be the bondage of certain ribbons and gloves.
Without annoying me: and there were drawn
Thy child shall live, and I will see it nourish'd.
Take up my mistress' gown to his master's use!
Invest me in my motley; give me leave
To their approvers they are people such
know the dressy age dotes on--only got the tune of
You fur your gloves with reason. Here are
hold the laying in--he will last you some eight year
Too far i' the land: 'tis like to be loud weather;
All in gore-blood; I swounded at the sight.
Exeunt
Go, bear him in thine arms.
Go great with tigers, dragons, wolves, and bears;
And you the calendars of their nativity,
the moon is never but a month old: and I say beside
No more such wives; therefore, no wife: one worse,
With lawyers in the vacation, for they sleep between
Hark you, sir: I'll have them very fairly bound:
Enter EDGAR disguised as a mad man
And let the unscarr'd braggarts of the war
Re-enter HERMIA
Are your doors lock'd?
And passed sentence may not be recall'd
That had not God, for some strong purpose, steel'd
Rather than have that savage duke thine heir
That ebb and flow by the moon.
No, to my cabin.
The immortal gods that hear you,--spare your oaths,
We'll both attend upon your ladyship.
Marry, sir, I carried Mistress Silvia the dog you bade me.
Honour hath no skill in surgery, then? no. What is
See where they come: I'll warrant they'll
Nature teaches beasts to know their friends.
Yes, that thou didst: didst thou see any thing?
As you respect the common good, the state
Then gave I her, so tutor'd by my art,
DON
Did he not send you twain?
Enter LEONTES, ANTIGONUS, Lords, and Servants
One, sir, that for his love dares yet do more
fustian with one's own shadow? O thou invisible
Canst thou, when thou command'st the beggar's knee,
Marry, the gods forfend!
Do you question me, as an honest man should do, for
Here grow no damned grudges; here are no storms,
And at the pit of Acheron
That heirless it hath made my kingdom and
I'll do his country service.
And did upbraid me with my father's death:
Fetch't, let me see't.
My quarrel and this English queen's are one.
Here love; thou see'st how diligent I am
What villain touch'd his body, that did stab,
And now about the cauldron sing,
O Paulina,
Now, madam, may his highness live in freedom,
Neighbours, God speed!
And be you silent and attentive too,
The king by me requests your presence straight.
And bring along these rascal knaves with thee?
Exeunt
Hang those that talk of fear. Give me mine armour.
Hortensio will be quit with thee by changing.
Do thou so much as dig the grave for him:
Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand:
Alack, alack, is it not like that I,
know not myself, he would never have boarded me in this fury.
Richly in two short hours. Only they
You have heard him swear downright he was.
Address their dangers in. Hector is gone:
Who pays before, but not when he does owe it.
Like the sequel, I. Signior Costard, adieu.
Lord John of Lancaster, go you with him.
Did hang a salt-fish on his hook, which he
King Stephen was a worthy peer,
This is your wife.
Sirrah, naked fellow,--
We'll consecrate the steps that Ajax makes
Beware the ides of March.
Where is our daughter? She hath not appear'd
As this Gonzalo; I myself could make
And therein do account myself well paid:
so fair and excellent ladies any thing. But let
For general sovereignty; and that he will'd me
That such a crafty devil as is his mother
Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow
Thus I conceive by him.
Nay, that's right; but why wear you your leek today?
A journey to my loving Proteus.
When I did name her brothers, then fresh tears
Enter DROMIO of Ephesus
That she should lock herself from his resort,
This bottle makes an angel.
Away! I say; commend me to thy master.
No, Paris is not; for you know 'tis true,
More, by all mores, than e'er I shall love wife.
Exeunt MONTAGUE and LADY MONTAGUE
Is it a beggar-man?
By us perform'd before. Most dearly welcome!
Like it your grace,
And so he thinks, and is no less apparent
Hath so exasperate the king that he
DON
For how can tyrants safely govern home,
Who, with their drowsy, slow and flagging wings,
And these are not fairies? I was three or four
Let us not leave him out.
But screw your courage to the sticking-place,
Away before: conduct me to the king;
Look'd black upon me; struck me with her tongue,
ANTIPHOLUS
So much I love his heart: but, I perceive,
sincerely: had I a dozen sons, each in my love
That I did pluck allegiance from men's hearts,
I have been bold--
Yet surely Cassio, I believe, received
great, reasonable great: marry, for my part, I
I beseech you.
I never did thee harm.
Let us die in honour: once more back again;
But I will sort a pitchy day for thee;
Then how can it be said I am alone,
Patience, thou young and rose-lipp'd cherubin,--
the ear of caelo, the sky, the welkin, the heaven;
As little joy, my lord, as you suppose
Let me bear another to his horse; for that's the more
Let him be brought forth and borne hence for help.
My foes I do repute you every one;
My intercession likewise steads my foe.
By us, a pair of kings. Let's from this place.
And I'll believe thee.
Who makes the fairest show means most deceit.
fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
What, did they never whisper?
But here she comes; and now, Petruchio, speak.
O brother, with the dismall'st object hurt
I will both hear and grant you your requests.
To think on this, and shall I lack the thought
Re-enter KING JOHN and KING PHILIP, with their powers, severally
Is this the promise that you made your mother?
Heat them and they retort that heat again
But yet I'll bury thee: thou'lt go, strong thief,
SCENE V. Alexandria. CLEOPATRA's palace.
Whereto the rather shall his day's hard journey
Already smokes about the burning crest
The clock hath stricken three.
For one his like, there would be something failing
And shakes his threatening sword
And furbish new the name of John a Gaunt,
For hateful deeds committed by myself!
I'll follow you, I'll lead you about a round,
O, thus I found her, straying in the park,
kernel out of a pomegranate; you are a vagabond and
Wilt thou betray thy noble mistress thus?
But certain issue strokes must arbitrate:
Did will what he did spend and spent not that
That trick of state
DON
Foh, foh! adieu; you palter.
I was a man: all would not do. A plague of all
Well, then, imprison him: if imprisonment be the
God's wrong is most of all.
We stay here for the people.
on thought,
How dost thou pity him whom thou dost trouble?
A thousand, sir,
Tell me what state, what dignity, what honour,
The painting is almost the natural man;
Exit
Thy hand is made to grasp a palmer's staff,
Of lords and ladies, having brought the queen
Looking the way her harmless young one went,
It might be yours or hers, for aught I know.
the two learned men have compiled in praise of the
Nothing so kind, but something pitiful!
old: it were a goot motion if we leave our pribbles
KING CLAUDIUS puts LAERTES' hand into HAMLET's
Monday night, which he forswore on Tuesday morning;
Enter Chorus
Conrade, I say!
He sups to-night with a harlotry, and thither will I
it will be seen to-morrow: my long sickness
I here resign my government to thee,
To prove whose blood is reddest, his or mine.
Thou then wouldst kill me: do't; the time is come:
So fled his enemies my warlike father:
And so I was; which plainly signified
Ah, what sharp stings are in her mildest words!
Or else for ever be confixed here,
The spoons will be the bigger, sir. There is a
Then shall Hector be whipped for Jaquenetta that is
Upon thy stars, thy fortune and thy strength,
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
That very oft we pity enemies.
Did he not moralize this spectacle?
Who can bring noblest minds to basest ends!
Although the duke was enemy to him,
Met I my father with his bleeding rings,
You know to-morrow is the wedding-day.
And if he were, he came into the world
and I paid nothing for it neither, but was paid for
Why, this bond is forfeit;
Not proud, you have; but thankful, that you have:
'Twixt two such shes would chatter this way and
Carry him gently to my fairest chamber
Or with this paper shall I stop it: Hold, sir:
flint for want of meat, depart reeling with too
I, that denied thee gold, will give my heart:
That common chances common men could bear;
Be bright and jovial among your guests to-night.
Holla! stand there!
I left out one thing which the queen confess'd.
Through this the well-beloved Brutus stabb'd;
Did mock sad fools withal: this cannot be:
The petty difference, we yet not know.
Alas, he faints! O Cassio, Cassio, Cassio!
Prithee, son, do; for we must be gentle, now we are
Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them?
As't please your lordship: I'll leave you.
See'st thou this sweet sight?
The noble duke hath been too much abused.
For the best hope I have. O, do not wish one more!
trumpet's sound; we shall to 't presently.
Thy heaven is on earth; thine eyes and thoughts
In single combat thou shalt buckle with me,
Stood on her cheeks, as doth the honey-dew
I shall be counsell'd.
Or is he but retired to make him strong?
Come, your lord calls!
No harm: what more?
Enter Banditti
But if black scandal or foul-faced reproach
I ran it through, even from my boyish days,
Cornelia the midwife and myself;
Hath hither brought.
SCENE IV. A room in ANGELO's house.
Is this the man that you did tell us of?
I dare thee but to breathe upon my love.
Had servants true about me, that bare eyes
Nor no without-book prologue, faintly spoke
Good Doctor Pinch, you are a conjurer;
in the market-place.
My soul doth tell me Hero is belied;
Here on my knee I vow to God above,
The people love me, and the sea is mine;
That you have ta'en a tardy sluggard here.
O God, seest Thou this, and bearest so long?
Mistress Anne Page: and the letter is, to desire
His brother, Archbishop late of Canterbury,
Do what thou canst, I will not go to-day;
mouth, and half Count John's melancholy in Signior
I pray you, do not push me; I'll be gone.
Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
Weeps when she sees me work, and says, such baseness
But 'twould offend him; and in his offence
I would you rather had been silent. Please you
beef-witted lord!
Away, base cullions! Suffolk, let them go.
Thou shall be waking well I shed thy blood,
To stubborn critics, apt, without a theme,
Faith, like enough.
And all my fortunes at thy foot I'll lay
To ashes, ere our blood shall quench that fire:
Every man,
No more, sweet Hamlet!
'Tis not an hour since I left him well:
Of thy deceased brother Geffrey's son,
Why, any thing:
The elephant hath joints, but none for courtesy:
That sort was well fished for.
The rich advantage of good exercise?
Re-enter QUEEN
Besides himself, are all the English peers,
Nay then, I will not: you shall have the mustard,
Ask nothing, give it him, it foals me, straight,
No master, sir, but a poor man's son: his father,
Of him that best could speak, for feature, laming
I mean, in perjured witness, than your master,
Rest you fair, good signior;
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
By this leek, I will most horribly revenge: I eat
And unmatch'd wit and judgment: Ferdinand,
Killing them twice. O, give us leave, great king,
Than foemen's marks upon his batter'd shield;
That's my good son: but where hast thou been, then?
Do you cry, 'O Lord, sir!' at your whipping, and
Arthur ta'en prisoner? divers dear friends slain?
To LAVINIA
And when I rear my hand, do you the like,
She will not come: she bids you come to her.
Ah, sirrah, this unlook'd-for sport comes well.
My throat to thee and to thy ancient malice;
And will not lightly trust the messenger
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die,
Must be half-workers? We are all bastards;
Varro's
matter to alter it. You have an unspeakable
I mean to tug it and to cuff you soundly:
Exeunt TROILUS and DIOMEDES, fighting
I'll be myself the harbinger and make joyful
Is it sir Robert's son that you seek so?
And yet your fair discourse hath been as sugar,
to the person written unto: 'Your ladyship's in all
I have well approved it, sir. I drunk!
How swift his ship.
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises,
Prithee, call Gardiner to me, my new secretary:
Enter TALBOT and JOHN his son
No, prelate; such is thy audacious wickedness,
Good fortune and the favour of the king
There is no terror, Cassius, in your threats,
O, lawful let it be
Unto the main! O father, Maine is lost;
And so return to you, and nothing else?
To link my dear friend to a common stale.
A coward, a most devout coward, religious in it.
May have the due note of him; and of my land,
But if thou scorn our courtesy, thou diest.
money for thee: if you tarry longer, I shall give
Fairness which strikes the eye--
If partially affined, or leagued in office,
We will extenuate rather than enforce:
A villain kills my father; and for that,
Were they his men?
Even that, I hope, which pleaseth God above,
We lop away, that bearing boughs may live:
No, madam, 'tis not so well that I am poor, though
The more accursed thou, that still omitt'st it.
Most busy lest, when I do it.
I am now going to resolve him: I had rather my
She was too good for me: but, as I said,
Than I have named! The bastard Faulconbridge
through the most fond and winnowed opinions; and do
Approach, rich Ceres, her to entertain.
remuneration I had of thy master, thou halfpenny
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, and IRAS
To lesson me and tell me some good mean
Tapster; a poor widow's tapster.
Goodly and gallant shall be false and perjured
A stop i' the chaser, a retire, anon
Not to pick bad from bad, but by bad mend!
And, till so much blood thither come again,
news in Rome? I have a note from the Volscian state,
In human action and capacity,
This service is not service, so being done,
None else of name; and of all other men
In Sicyon:
Hereditary sloth instructs me.
distinctly billeted, already in the entertainment,
Love hath chased sleep from my enthralled eyes
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
What are we, Apemantus?
Exeunt
So proud that Bolingbroke was on his back!
To speak and strike? O Rome, I make thee promise:
Where art thou now?
Why, yet thy scandal were not wiped away
In cash most justly paid.
Now counterfeit to swoon; why now fall down;
But with a rear-ward following Tybalt's death,
For pity is the virtue of the law,
Bloody with spurring, fiery-red with haste.
Here's Lucentio,
My father!--methinks I see my father.
Your majesty hear now, saving your majesty's
So he has.
I have inquired, so has my husband, man by man, boy
As all comforts are; most good, most good indeed.
Sorrow would solace and mine age would ease.
can be in love. Yet Benedick was such another, and
There may as well be amity and life
An easy task; 'tis but to love a king.
Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him
My plight requires it. Do not weep, good fools;
off. Je quand sur le possession de France, et quand
Cried 'Cursed fate that gave thee to the Moor!'
A daughter?
earth, seems to me a sterile promontory, this most
Thy brother's blood the thirsty earth hath drunk,
O, here he is: lay hand upon him. Sir,
Wife, love Lord Hastings, let him kiss your hand;
Thank me no thankings, nor, proud me no prouds,
Do give a life: no shepherdess, but Flora
He was brought to this
You will! why, happy man be's dole! My brother,
Would take no notice, nor build yourself a trouble
Obey and be attentive. Canst thou remember
Either for life or death, upon the earth
A man worth any woman, overbuys me
This 'once again,' but that your highness pleased,
No, to their lives bad friends were contrary.
Your gracious self, embrace but my direction:
The interim, by remembering you 'tis past.
Why, with my lord, madam.
Grandpre and Roussi, Fauconberg and Foix,
Why, there's no remedy; 'tis the curse of service,
With hope to find the like event in love,
When dying clouds contend with growing light,
And bind us further to you.
And in his commendations I am fed;
The ladies did change favours: and then we,
William, sir.
Nor did you nothing hear?
As easy as a down-bed would afford it.
This diamond he greets your wife withal,
Marry, sir, our watch to-night, excepting your
Have left me naked to mine enemies.
Shall say against their hearts 'We thank the gods
Iago beckons me; now he begins the story.
my l'envoy.
Kisses her
Mark, Jack.
Fare thee well, fare thee well.
and the most unworthy of her you call Rosalind that
That men would tell their children 'This is he;'
you before me again upon any complaint whatsoever;
O, on my soul, my cousin is belied!
As fearful as a siege.
yet it is necessary. An old sheep-whistling rogue a
Yes, and shall do till the pangs of death shake him:
Believe me, sister, of all the men alive
youth of the city?
What was my first? it has an elder sister,
were, and I by him, at all adventures, so we were quit here.
Assured bondage?'
Married to your good service, stay till death:
For all the world.
You cannot call it love; for at your age
No, at a word, madam; indeed, I must not. I wish
Welcome, ass. Now let's have a catch.
Behold, it is the privilege of mine honours,
I heard him swear,
What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
Vanish, or I shall give thee thy deserving,
man's sworn spouse; set not thy sweet heart on proud
Enter MALCOLM and MACDUFF
Here comes the king.
Hath her life been; the cure whereof, my lord,
My dread lord,
Thy knotted and combined locks to part
I well might hear, delivered with a groan,
Is this your promise? go to, hold your tongue.
Let me, upon my knee, prevail in this.
He's a traitor.
That dost in vile misprision shackle up
And turn him to no pain; but if he start,
For holy offices I have a time; a time
Make love's quick pants in Desdemona's arms,
SCENE V. The same. A garden.
Will you dine with me to-morrow?
You fools of fortune, trencher-friends, time's flies,
To prove the Duke of Norfolk, Thomas Mowbray,
Worthy Camillo,
The devil their virtue tempts, and they tempt heaven.
Not a word, a word; we stand upon our manners.
That in their kind they speak it: only sin
I know none of that name, lady: there was none such
Enter the BASTARD
How prettily the young swain seems to wash
In love, i' faith, to the very tip of the nose.
So runs against all reason.
What? what?
[Kneeling]  O my good master!
His wit set down to make his valour live
Tear me, take me, and the gods fall upon you!
delivered me, the knave constable had set me i' the
Two things are to be done:
Your brother kings and monarchs of the earth
Cassius, be constant:
For we intend so to dispose you as
And here's a lord,--come knights from east to west,
Sir, good success!
He is a traitor; let him to the Tower,
I can no more: live thou to joy thy life;
his lover; as a puisny tilter, that spurs his horse
Can make you greater than the Queen of Goths.
Exit
As that whereof I had the government,
From her shall read the perfect ways of honour,
Made Britain India: every man that stood
At a few drops of women's rheum, which are
But I bespoke you fair, and hurt you not.
I shall, sir.
with such impossible conveyance upon me that I stood
To nothing but despair. A thousand knees
In this I bury all unkindness, Cassius.
Even thou and none but thou. Take it up straight:
And tears will quickly melt thy life away.
That may with reasonable swiftness add
For what offence?
Exit, guarded
ram-tender, to offer to have his daughter come into
Nay, I hear nothing: his mother and his wife
Where chance may nurse or end it. Take it up.
You have said you will not grant us any thing;
Raze out the written troubles of the brain
Hath rivall'd for our daughter: what, in the least,
Do not you love me?
And that would woo her. Upon this hint I spake:
He is dead and gone, lady,
But seeming so, for my peculiar end:
No talk of Timon, nothing of him expect.
He was much famed.
To dusty nothing, yet let memory,
I would assay, proud queen, to make thee blush.
To press before thy father to a grave?
Still lamenting and mourning for Suffolk's death?
I pray you.
A pair of cursed hell-hounds and their dam!
and therefore too much odds for a Spaniard's rapier.
When I come where he calls, then he is gone.
it is almost day.
The jury, passing on the prisoner's life,
Good morrow, Ajax.
To see him kiss his hand! and how most sweetly a'
And our weak spirits ne'er been higher rear'd
That Edward shall be fearful of his life,
And these great tears grace his remembrance more
Wrath-kindled gentlemen, be ruled by me;
Orsino! I have heard my father name him:
Warr'st thou with a woman's heart?
3. Lord Chancellor, with the purse and mace
To some forlorn and naked hermitage,
I have my wish.
Why speak'st not? speak, man: what's thy name?
For by this knot thou shalt so surely tie
Music. Here a dance of Shepherds and Shepherdesses
Cade more: I think he hath a very fair warning.
To the disgrace and downfall of your house:
Apollo, pardon
Shall to my flaming wrath be oil and flax.
The Anthropophagi and men whose heads
And hid his crisp head in the hollow bank,
'She died by foul play.'
We shall find a time, Audrey; patience, gentle Audrey.
To be corrupted with my worthless gifts.
Thou hast served me with much faith. What's else to say?
And the most merciless that e'er was heard of!
To lay one in, another out to have.
to breakfast: after, we'll a-birding together; I
Of Brabant and of Orleans, shall make forth,
This was the most unkindest cut of all;
From time to time I have acquainted you
But with such words that are but rooted in
My matter hath no voice, to your own most pregnant
To reconcile me to his friendly peace:
And, though mine enemy, restored again
are, or I will scarce think you have swam in a
'Tear him to pieces.' 'Do it presently.' 'He kill'd
For do but stand upon the foaming shore,
And I can cut the mutton to't.
He or she, cuckold or cuckold-maker,
circlets of gold without flowers.
To make me blest or cursed'st among men.
And follow'd with the general throng and sweat
How fares my gracious sir?
it; and he that I gave it to in change promised to
To-day will I set forth, to-morrow you.
With female fairies will his tomb be haunted,
to find myself fobbed in it.
My blessing go with thee!
To learn his wit to exchange the bad for better.
[To DUKE SENIOR]  To you I give myself, for I am yours.
With what I get, I mean; and so do they.
I hope so, Lepidus. Thus we are agreed:
Else none at all in ought proves excellent.
We banish thee for ever.
That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should
That same Biron I'll torture ere I go:
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before
When he might spurn him with his foot away?
And ceremoniously let us prepare
I will, my lord.
The wreck of all my friends, nor this man's threats,
I'll go to him, and undertake to bring him
Exeunt
And usest none in that true use indeed
Why?
else being drowned, we will inherit here: here;
As I have heard him swear himself there's one
Against her will! good king, look to't in time;
And yet too good to be your concubine.
You may see, Lepidus, and henceforth know,
On most part of their fleet.
Bianca's grief.
I will entreat; my boy, a Briton born,
answer in a catechism.
expound the meaning or moral of his signs and tokens.
And lose my hopes.
thought fit, through all Athens, to play in our
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Under correction, sir, we know whereuntil it doth amount.
Enter CRESSIDA
SCENE III. A room in the castle.
March on, march on, since we are up in arms;
of them; if th' other two be brained like us, the
Round even to faultiness.
Those in commission yet return'd?
Their medicinal gum. Set you down this;
Exit
Re-enter PANDARUS
To answer us.
I thank both him and you, and pledge him freely.
thee, good man's son, from the foul fiend! five
Then to the wood will he to-morrow night
Enter MARGARET JOURDAIN, HUME, SOUTHWELL, and BOLINGBROKE
three days his head to be chopped off.
That slew himself; and wise Laertes' son
Oppress'd with two weak evils, age and hunger,
I'll watch him tame and talk him out of patience;
Room for Antony, most noble Antony.
But think upon my grief, a lady's grief,
No other harm but loss of such a lord.
I never spake with her in all my life.
My husband lives, that Tybalt would have slain;
Upon a time,--unhappy was the clock
That I gainsay my deed, how may he wound,
he can resolve you.
Hath from the number of his banish'd years
Shame that they wanted cunning, in excess
We will be there before the stream o' the people;
Re-enter PUCK, and BOTTOM with an ass's head
On him I lay what you would lay on me,
Which his fair tongue, conceit's expositor,
Very well! go to! I cannot go to, man; nor 'tis
And that unbodied figure of the thought
Hie to your chamber: I'll find Romeo
Hath nothing been but shapes and forms of slaughter.
But the rarity of it is,--which is indeed almost
And Julia herself hath brought it hither.
And was at last out-faced by Bolingbroke?
We'll crave a parley, to confer with him.
your knees and make ready.
and will come into 't? I hear say you are of
say I, 'you counsel well:' to be ruled by my
To burn the errors that these princes hold
What masque? what music? How shall we beguile
Lord cardinal, if thou think'st on heaven's bliss,
Then, as in grateful virtue I am bound
I'll think them every one an Antony,
be hangers till then. But, on: six Barbary horses
Do you not jest?
So thrive I in my dangerous attempt
Where I have hope to see the nuptial
Commends his good opinion of you, and
Thy father's court? for thou shalt hear that I,
With grief that's beauty's canker, thou mightst call him
Find out their enemies now. Tremble, thou wretch,
Be of good cheer;
To pray at fortune. Haply, for I am black
Since night you loved me; yet since night you left
My good knave Eros, now thy captain is
The strong necessity of time commands
hears with ear'? why, it is affectations.
Our scouts have found the adventure very easy:
Of my instruction hast thou nothing bated
Wilt thou go to bed, Malvolio?
commander,--
Advise thee, Aaron, what is to be done,
Enter, on the turrets, SALISBURY and TALBOT, GLANSDALE, GARGRAVE, and others
And die in music.
What were you snarling all before I came,
No, no, I am as ugly as a bear;
Lucilius' Servant	Mark, how strange it shows,
You shall perceive them make a mutual stand,
And speak between the change of man and boy
Your servants ever
By lengthening my return. From Gallia
Harp not on that string, madam; that is past.
show himself what he is and steal out of your company.
And then our arms, like to a muzzled bear,
marvel how the fishes live in the sea.
This is a most majestic vision, and
sir, I would prove--
virginity; and cry 'He that will give most shall
Why, then, I care not for thee.
Well, well, thou hast a careful father, child;
Enter FRIAR LAURENCE and PARIS, with Musicians
Our remedies oft in ourselves do lie,
What exploit's in hand? where sups he to-night?
Exeunt
How goes the world, that I am thus encounter'd
O me! my uncle's spirit is in these stones:
Ay me, I am forsworn!
On either hand thee there are squadrons pitch'd,
of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not
Yes, I beseech your grace: I am not yet well breathed.
Why, what should be the fear?
And you may then revolve what tales I have told you
Aside
Let our just censures
Exit DENNY
Your highness should deliver up your crown.
Or else the law of Athens yields you up--
Will't please your lordship drink a cup of sack?
Of an inestimable value, and his daughter with him,
Beseech you, father.
No, we'll no Bullens. Speedily I wish
Here comes Boyet, and mirth is in his face.
To bed, to bed: sleep kill those pretty eyes,
rich by the fairies. This is some changeling:
And here I take Cordelia by the hand,
My mother's son did get your father's heir;
I will tell the king all, every word, yea, and his
dat I vill not for the varld I shall leave behind.
ignorant of what greatness is promised thee. Lay it
I have broke your hest to say so!
It is, my lord.
That were the most, if he should husband you.
Exeunt
As this I dream'd of?
None in the world: you did mistake him, sure.
And Henry, though he be infortunate,
Bruise me with scorn, confound me with a flout;
Is to be made, then shall this hand and seal
friend, as thou usest him, and thy sworn enemy,
Marry, now I can tell.
Piteous predicament! Even so lies she,
Anon!
He hath a person and a smooth dispose
for though she's as like this as a crab's like an
And all the brothers too: and yet I know not.
To accept my grief and whilst this poor wealth lasts
scab follow.
Come, sir, what letters had you late from France?
But you, my lord, were glad to be employ'd,
Oui, vraiment, sauf votre grace, ainsi dit-il.
Was ne'er distributed.
Bon, bon, fort bon, Priscian! a little scratch'd,
Look here upon thy brother Geffrey's face;
The mother to a hopeful prince, here standing
I am a woodland fellow, sir, that always loved a
My father's rough and envious disposition
To gripe the general sway into your hand;
Puts to him all the learnings that his time
Will you with free and unconstrained soul
Believe me, lords, my tender years can tell
Not a whit,
Enter ANTONIO and PANTHINO
Mother Jourdain, be you
That severs day from night.
Omitted, all the voyage of their life
On whom it will not, so; yet still 'tis just.
Or make some sign how I may do thee ease:
As upon thee, Macbeth, their speeches shine--
smutch'd thy nose?
Thy crown does sear mine eye-balls. And thy hair,
If it be proved! you see it is apparent.
Your grace shall well and quietly enjoy.
And rich: here is a water, look ye.
He consul!
Thou wouldst have poison'd good Camillo's honour,
There is example for't; the lady of the Strachy
And chid his truant youth with such a grace
SCENE II. The same. Court of Pandarus' house.
As well as I had seen and heard him speak
A dire induction am I witness to,
Disbursed by my father in his wars.
I am glad that my weak words
how the knave jowls it to the ground, as if it were
Who was so firm, so constant, that this coil
Which brought us hither.
Come, come, a hand from either:
Above ten thousand meaner moveables
would call abbominable: it insinuateth me of
Adding withal how blest this land would be
Exeunt
of us, I pray!
What call you the carriages?
Here, sir: I'ld have beaten him like a dog, but for
You, merchant, have you any thing to say?
Nonsuits my mediators; for, 'Certes,' says he,
Are you three usurers' men?
It is, my lord.
O Helicanus, strike me, honour'd sir;
Or as a bear, encompass'd round with dogs,
Sit patiently and inly ruminate
Now get thee hence: the king, thou know'st, is coming;
We are tougher, brother,
Brave warriors, Clifford and Northumberland,
From change of fortune. Why this spade? this place?
I'll lead you to some biding.
With all the gracious utterance thou hast
To the expecters of our Trojan part;
Directitude! what's that?
Ay, madam.
What is she?
Come o'er the bourn, Bessy, to me,--
She'll gallop far enough to her destruction.
Cousin, go draw our puissance together.
A minister in his power. You know his nature,
I'll stay above the hill, so both may shoot.
SCENE IV. The same. Before the palace.
Varying in subjects as the eye doth roll
Follow me.
Why cloud they not their sights perpetually,
Traitors ensteep'd to clog the guiltless keel,--
A touch, a touch, I do confess.
What, do you shake at that?
But I can make respective in myself,
Your ladyship is ignorant what it is.
Are at the duke's already: you have been
The fraud of men was ever so,
He is address'd: press near and second him.
Silence!
Cannot choose but ever weep the friend.
Then let them all encircle him about
to the wall.
Observe mine uncle: if his occulted guilt
I cannot leave to love, and yet I do;
sold many laces.
Fie, that you'll say so! he plays o' the
Is thine and my poor country's to command:
O bon Dieu! les langues des hommes sont pleines de
To save the Romans, thereby to destroy
'Tis none of mine.
Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time:
Exit CLOTEN
In faith, lady, you have a merry heart.
'Thou maiden youth, be vanquish'd by a maid:'
And tempt us not to bear above our power!
In herbs, plants, stones, and their true qualities:
love not Marcius.
Is apprehended for arrival here;
Whom, like a school-boy, you may over-awe.
My reason all the same; and they are ready
mouths, sir.'
Thou troublest me; am not in the vein.
hath them as huge as the rascal. Is the single man
There is not so much left, to furnish out
And palter in the shifts of lowness; who
Turn out that eyeless villain; throw this slave
Of you, my noble cousin Buckingham,
My custom always of the afternoon,
On whose bright crest Fame with her loud'st Oyes
sacrifice: where air comes out, air comes in:
This child was prisoner to the womb and is
Before his chaps be stain'd with crimson blood,
The unstooping firmness of my upright soul:
And six or seven winters more respect
Else would I very shortly see thee there.
I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me;
In rage deaf as the sea, hasty as fire.
But if I cannot win you to this love,
But meet him now, and, be it in the morn,
As did that one, and that, in my regard,
Lords, you that here are under our arrest,
roaring of a lion's whelp.
Should with his lion gait walk the whole world,
I snatch'd one half out of the jaws of death,
We set the axe to thy usurping root;
If once it be neglected, ten to one
And keep the Frenchmen in allegiance.
No better a musician than the wren.
Alas, sir!
We must proceed as we do find the people.
myself, fidelicet myself; and the three party is,
Saucy and overbold? How did you dare
Tell her, I hold as giddily as fortune;
The same indeed; a very valiant fellow.
As it on earth hath been thy servant still.
To render up the great seal presently
And for his dreams, I wonder he is so fond
Nor should that nation boast it so with us,
No bourn 'twixt his and mine, yet were it true
And the right-valiant Banquo walk'd too late;
No more, I pray you.
Justice, sweet prince, against that woman there!
Ding, dong, bell.
no harm, good man;' puts him off, slights him, with
This mutiny were better put in hazard,
I will be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
Our parents and us twain,
Which, to preserve mine honour, I'll perform.
In sign, whereof, this arm, that hath reclaim'd
That will I, should I die the hour after.
should prove the mother of fools. I have brought
I shame to hear thee speak. Ah, timorous wretch!
he smells like a fish; a very ancient and fish-
Will ever after droop. Here cease more questions:
He lived from all attainder of suspect.
honey-bag, signior. Where's Mounsieur Mustardseed?
These eyes that never shed remorseful tear,
Ravish a maid, or plot the way to do it,
Scorn'd a fair colour, or express'd it stolen;
Would have him wed again.
You that love me and Warwick, follow me.
For these bad bondmen to the yoke of Rome.
Or my shamed life in his dishonour lies:
Infected as her life, she would not live
Behold, these are the tribunes of the people,
More sharp than filed steel, did spur me forth;
'B mi,' Bianca, take him for thy lord,
on the score for sheer ale, score me up for the
Sir, sometimes, when he is not Antony,
thou not go to church in a galliard and come home in
Removed from thy sin-conceiving womb.
And happy always was it for that son
And in their triumph die, like fire and powder,
Therefore am I of an honourable house.
That was not to be blamed in the command of the
Seldom but sumptuous, showed like a feast
through the town to Frogmore.
Re-enter GHOST OF BANQUO
Mistress Page, divulge Page himself for a secure and
Before the gods my knee shall bow my prayers
And now to London with triumphant march,
Hear me, my masters, and my common friends,--
For ever and for ever shall be yours.
I'll see what I can do.
It seems his sleeps were hinder'd by thy railing,
Pre-eminence, and all the large effects
I prophesy the fearful'st time to thee
tell you you have good faces. If you see this in
Bethink you, father; for the difference
I am sorry, then, you have so lost a father
had the maidenliest star in the firmament
If he do, sure, he cannot weep't back again.
As firmly as yourself were still in place:
Forgive me that I do not dream on thee,
'Tis honour with most lands to be at odds;
'The mobled queen?'
What, what, sweet-heart?
That it is meet so few should fetch the prince.
Ah. mocker! that's the dog's name; R is for
I did; with his contract with Lady Lucy,
Into his title, the which we find
your lord's taking of this. Receive it so.
And bids you, in the bowels of the Lord,
Cousin, a word; where is your husband?
go near to make a man look sad.
If well-respected honour bid me on,
By light we lose light: your capacity
Charged our main battle's front, and breaking in
Away with her, and waft her hence to France.
Pity was all the fault that was in me;
for nothing that my nose fell a-bleeding on
'By heaven, that thou art fair, is most infallible;
More of him anon. There is written in your brow,
And after one hour more 'twill be eleven;
Hath made his pendent bed and procreant cradle:
And pluck up drowned honour by the locks;
If honour may be shrouded in a hearse,
Poor queen and son, your labour is but lost;
Well, then, I'll double your folly.
Signior Hortensio, come you to part the fray?
Nay, I'll give my word for her too: our kindred,
What is become of Marcius?
Then make your garden rich in gillyvors,
How doth the lady?
For I do know Fluellen valiant
I have, my lord.
Speak truly, on thy knighthood and thy oath;
seven year.
Save you, friend Cassio!
As I by friends am well advertised,
The more fool, madonna, to mourn for your brother's
Well, I will back him straight: O esperance!
Lord, for thy justice!
That you are well derived.
To furnish me upon my longing journey.
And so stand fix'd: peace, plenty, love, truth, terror,
Ratcliff, about the mid of night come to my tent
Enter DUKE, THURIO, and PROTEUS
For a small vice.
she is virtuous.
SCENE IV. Forres. The palace.
Exeunt Banditti
But that in all my life, when I was a youth.
Only in strokes; but, with thy grim looks and
Yes, it doth shine that night.
thy shoulders that a milkmaid, if she be in love,
I'll be so bold to break the seal for once.
deliver a supplication?
On the dank and dirty ground.
Enter, to Chamberlain, NORFOLK and SUFFOLK
A dreadful oath, sworn with a solemn tongue!
Who, but for staying on our controversy,
Than hear say how I got them.
And how by this their child shall be advanced,
to in a month.
His qualities being at this poor price, I need not
barren rascal: I saw him put down the other day
gentle; and one that is your friend, I can tell you
Now, Pompey, I have kept me from the cup.
Those that would mischief me than those that do!
For this alliance may so happy prove,
I have lost my gown.
But stop my house's ears, I mean my casements:
Ye appear in every thing may bring my ruin!
Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold;
I am sorry that I am deceived in him.
Am like a prophet suddenly enrapt
Forethought by heaven!
How camest thou in this pickle?
Of what I saw there.
Self-loving,--
Snail-slow in profit, and he sleeps by day
Thrice famed, beyond all erudition:
Sirs, take you to your tools. You, cousins, shall
Disguised cheaters, prating mountebanks,
kings and princes; for by such was it acted.
As full of spirit as the month of May,
Go thy ways, I begin to be aweary of thee; and I
Toward heaven, to pardon blood; and I have built
If I may have your daughter to my wife,
Reveal the damn'd contriver of this deed.
Kate, eat apace: and now, my honey love,
Say, is your tardy master now at hand?
Crowd to his presence, where their untaught love
Will you give me money, captain?
Whence came you?
My best and freshest men; served his designments
To Dover.
Hath power to keep you king in spite of all.
Soho, soho!
Exceeding those that I can wish upon thee,
If none, he'll say in Troy when he retires,
Sit like his grandsire cut in alabaster?
And squarest thy life according. Thou'rt condemn'd:
A woman sometimes, an you saw her in the light.
Stand!
Why, then, I would resort to her by night.
But durst not tempt a minister of honour,
Look, more!
But who comes here? I am invisible;
Which from the womb I did participate.
Perceived Northumberland did lean to him,
What, Longaville! and reading! listen, ear.
But what my power might else exact, like one
Exit
Let's fetch him off, or make remain alike.
Who wears my stripes impress'd upon him; that
that he hath devoted and given up himself to the
hath not drunk ink: his intellect is not
That shall I do, my liege. Stay, Salisbury,
Madam, I'll sing.
Let us alone to guard Corioli:
You shall find of the king a husband, madam; you,
Your reason, mighty lord?
Good, and valiant.
And from her bosom took the enemy's point,
On height of our displeasure: friend or brother,
The interim, pray you, all confound.
This interchange of love, I here protest,
To SELEUCUS
of Anjou and the county of Maine shall be released
Cannot thy master sleep these tedious nights?
Marry, and did, sir; namely, no time to recover hair
Clamber not you up to the casements then,
She doth well: if she should make tender of her
My services to your lordship.
would have suspected an ambush where I was taken?
The argument of your praise, balm of your age,
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears;
Three lads of Cyprus, noble swelling spirits,
Perhaps thou wilt object my holy oath:
Upon my life, my lord, I'll under-take it;
out of his swaddling-clouts.
The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
Beguiles the truer office of mine eyes?
Trampling contemptuously on thy disdain.
lose thee nothing; do it carefully. And the
We should be wood and were not made to woo.
Have made to thy command? I, her? her blood?
comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
That have stood by and seen our wishes prosper,
Why dost thou weep? Canst thou the conscience lack,
Within these three days let me hear thee say
That shall be scoured in his rancorous heart
Then lead me hence; with whom I leave my curse:
Reward did threaten and encourage him,
good wine in thy master's way.
That I profess myself in banqueting
'O, Jesus bless us, he is born with teeth!'
thing loves him in my despite. What mortality is!
I'll make division of my present with you:
I'll set her on;
Farewell.
Well, lords, the Duke of Lancaster is dead.
I am sorry for't:
What, are you busy, ho? need you my help?
Whose soul is that which takes her heavy leave?
Worthily spoken, Mecaenas.
As if thou wert distraught and mad with terror?
Most choice, forsaken; and most loved, despised!
I mean, who set the body and the limbs
Cry, Trojans, cry! practise your eyes with tears!
Lord Abergavenny; to whom by oath he menaced
Nor to be seen: my crown is called content:
Call thither all the officers o' the town,
should have swinged me. If I did not think it had
Yourself shall give us counsel. Feed, and sleep:
Why, first,--for flouting me; and then, wherefore--
his helm more hacked than Hector's, and how he looks,
de knight, de lords, de gentlemen, my patients.
a lady; I have been politic with my friend, smooth
For, like an ass whose back with ingots bows,
I remember.
away. Wilt thou use thy wit?
We grace the yeoman by conversing with him.
For which thou whipp'st her. The usurer hangs the cozener.
Doth limp behind the substance. Here's the scroll,
Good Paulina,
Tempt him not so too far; I wish, forbear:
And to his honour and his valiant parts
Some touches of remorse? or is your blood
Master, there is a bark of Epidamnum
HELENUS passes
DON
could have been to him and then your blood had been
How chance the prophet could not at that time
Sir, my lord would instantly speak with you.
Ah, froward Clarence! how evil it beseems thee
Do you withdraw yourself a little while,
Do not swear at all;
[Aside]  If chance will have me king, why, chance may crown me,
And that, by great injunctions, I am bound
To merchants, our well-dealing countrymen,
Do, do.
But I'ld say he had not,
Himself: what say'st thou to him?
whisper o'er a couplet or two of most sage saws.
would she were hearsed at my foot, and the ducats in
continue in his courses till thou knowest what they
The sixth part of his substance, to be levied
lately came from the king, commands the contrary.
But who comes here? Lorenzo and his infidel? What,
The cloudy messenger turns me his back,
You would for paradise break faith, and troth;
I cannot help it now,
For in a quarrel since I came ashore
She is too subtle for thee; and her smoothness,
O mother, mother!
Monsieur Parolles.
So shall I no whit be behind in duty
I meet the captains at the citadel.
And presently all humbled kiss the rod!
O son! the night before thy wedding-day
I am not I, if there be such an I;
Let Love, being light, be drowned if she sink!
'Twould not become him; his own's better.
Go, rate thy minions, proud insulting boy!
cannot be so neither: yes, it is so, it is so, it
No, indeed, my lord.
Needs no more but one tongue for all those wounds,
last time he searched for him, in a basket; protests
I thank thee for it; and heaven forbid
Prithee, peace.
Which thou owedst yesterday.
O, I die, Horatio;
In them a wilder nature than the business
Heavens shield Lysander, if they mean a fray!
There he must stay until the officer
Except like curs to tear us all to pieces.
Whose eyes are on this sovereign lady fix'd,
Look, here's the warrant, Claudio, for thy death:
Whilst such a worthy leader, wanting aid,
Duke Humphrey.
To keep obliged faith unforfeited!
Enter a second Messenger
O, no; for the duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves
Exeunt SHALLOW and SIR HUGH EVANS
As thick as honeycomb, each pinch more stinging
Whose compass is no bigger than thy head;
I see a man's life is a tedious one:
But thou shalt have; and creep time ne'er so slow,
Will you be cured of your infirmity?
That which hath made them drunk hath made me bold;
Exit
Enter some, bringing forward the Clerk of Chatham
Who dares not stand his foe, I'll be his friend;
Hard-handed men that work in Athens here,
parting. Nay, I'll show you the manner of it. This
That could conceive a gross and foolish sire
Then, Warwick, thus: our sister shall be Edward's;
Say, I, her sovereign, am her subject love.
For all the wealth that ever I did see,
I'll look you out a good turn, Servilius.
But, whatsoe'er thou takest me for, I'm sure
Enter KING HENRY VI, disguised, with a prayerbook
Ah, hark! the fatal followers do pursue;
Doth not the object cheer your heart, my lord?
'Be not afraid of greatness:' 'twas well writ.
Within her womb; which, for enlargement striving,
Speakest thou in sober meanings?
To greet your lord with writing, do't to-night:
Laying PARIS in the tomb
It is Biron's writing, and here is his name.
And made a gap in nature.
She strike upon the bell. Get thee to bed.
For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a
mighty, rotting
Good morrow, cousin Cressid: what do you talk of?
in her body. No, Hector is not a better man than Troilus.
Whose grossness little characters sum up:
Shall mistress be of it, save I alone.
had never been born.
Achilles; Achilles is my lord; I am Patroclus'
If he were living, I would try him yet.
Because I would not tax the needy commons,
In sign of league and amity with thee:
I writ to's holiness. Nay then, farewell!
I speak no more than what my soul intends;
to see the wrestling?
that Clifford's manhood lies upon his tongue.
As for my patron, stand you so assured,
Thou setter up and plucker down of kings,
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
request, I can tell you.
Ay, I'll be sworn. My master knows not of your
Very well:
And thence from Athens turn away our eyes,
Dost grant me, hedgehog? then, God grant me too
paths our very petticoats will catch them.
As theirs, so mine; and all be as it is.
The night has been unruly: where we lay,
endure cold as another man's sword will: and
The breath no sooner left his father's body,
not, man; here's no harm intended to thee.
Half heart, half hand, half Hector comes to seek
A natural guiltiness such as is his,
Let him depart before we need his help.
Thanks, i' faith, for silence is only commendable
I durst have denied that, before you were so choleric.
To the Doctor
For some new honours that are heap'd on Caesar.
Lest you shall chance to whip your information
I had been happy, if the general camp,
That, if I then had waked after long sleep,
him.
In their assign'd and native dwelling-place.
I were malicious else.
Our duties did his welcome pay.
Nor age nor honour shall shape privilege:
So slackly guarded, and the search so slow,
Your compensation makes amends, for I
Of monstrous friends, nor has he with him to
As, first, good company, good wine, good welcome,
Which craves as desperate an execution.
Are you wise?
You taught me how to know the face of right,
O thou untaught! what manners is in this?
hast men about thee that usually talk of a noun and
Exeunt
cinque pace faster and faster, till he sink into his grave.
Truly, I have him: but I would not be the party
We shall further think on't.
He reads the riddle
Where is Metellus Cimber? Let him go,
Be secret-false: what need she be acquainted?
She pray'd me to excuse her keeping close,
To sort some gentlemen well skill'd in music.
Did I but speak thy deeds. What committed!
But get thee back; my soul is too much charged
To-morrow, Caesar,
trencher, hence!
If I were much in love with vanity!
What louring star now envies thy estate,
To make a seemly answer to such persons.
Stabs himself
Every elf and fairy sprite
And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.
As was your former; but she shall be such
Thy lying tongue both numbers, I would say
Presuming on an ague's privilege,
Antick'd us all. What needs more words? Good night.
And something over to remember me by:
Given to captivity me and my utmost hopes,
As I have received it.
As thunder threatens us: this is Marina.
Drown'd, drown'd.
And that my Lord of Norfolk?
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
Is in one mile: if they have measured many,
There is no answer made.
Only I yield to die:
O, ten times more, than tigers of Hyrcania.
love, my dear Moth?
Sweet doctor, you shall be my bed-fellow:
As gentle tell me, of what honour was
Where all my sins are writ, and that's myself.
Let him shun castles;
and an express command, under penalty, to deliver
Hard food for Midas, I will none of thee;
Why, i' faith, methinks she's too low for a high
valour is discretion; in the which better part I
The day, my friends and all things stay for me.
I doubt not but thy training hath been noble.
Where rather I'll expect victorious life
In presence of the Kings of France and Sicil,
Thither we bend again.
A love-song, a love-song.
Mercutio's kinsman, noble County Paris!
Shame come to Romeo!
Why stay we to be baited
Did Julius Caesar build that place, my lord?
Pray thee, fellow, peace: I do not like thy look,
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Not to be married,
Take't; 'tis yours. What is't?
'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow;
How couldst thou drain the life-blood of the child,
Gives me this instance: already he hath carried
If I could bear it longer, and not fall
Five times redeem'd from death: I do not know
Yes, when his holy state is touch'd so near.
Mark'd by the destinies to be avoided,
greater soldier.
What figure of us think you he will bear?
ACT III
If I command him, follows my appointment:
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
He spake of her, as Dian had hot dreams,
Faith, master, I am thinking of the poor men that
Worcester is stolen away to-night; thy father's
Must be my convoy in the secret night.
I will not part with a village of it; I will have it
Something I must do to procure me grace.
Why, so I am, in mind; and that's enough.
Most royal majesty,
Shake my fell purpose, nor keep peace between
Young Romeo is it?
Tongue, not a word:
And therein you are senseless.
do than to confess she does: that is one of the
grace say Amen to it.
Takes the skull
Our country manners give our betters way.
DUMB SHOW.
If they had swallow'd poison, 'twould appear
Of divers witnesses; which the duke desired
Natures of such deep trust we shall much need;
Shall I come upon thee with an old saying, that was
In Ireland have I seen this stubborn Cade
Whom I myself embrace, to set him free.
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
Caius Ligarius, that Metellus spake of.
Could all but answer for that peevish brat?
And yet I fear you; for you are fatal then
I say she never did invent this letter;
Ay, that a' did.
My music playing far off, I will betray
Heavens defend me from that Welsh fairy, lest he
Be the attorney of my love to her:
If you have stomach; the general state, I fear,
Lucius!
More harder than the stones whereof 'tis raised;
The hearts of princes kiss obedience,
I give to both your speeches, which were such
matter? why weepest thou, man? Away, ass! You'll
On Navarre and his book-men; for here 'tis abused.
Silence that fellow: I would he had some cause
Enter IAGO and RODERIGO
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
We are less afraid to be drowned than thou art.
Death of one person can be paid but once,
The hart.
I cannot say the words.
You are a Roman, are you?
I gain'd my freedom, and immediately
Comfort, my liege; why looks your grace so pale?
You know the lady; she is fast my wife,
Forget that rarest treasure of your cheek,
When last the young Orlando parted from you
Are crack'd in pieces by malignant death,
Where no man never comes but that sad dog
Which, in the tender of a wholesome weal,
What, dress'd! and in your clothes! and down again!
So much against the mettle of your sex,
The Hyrcanian deserts and the vasty wilds
SCENE I. Orchard of Oliver's house.
Inform us of thy fortunes, for it seems
Our lodgings, standing bleak upon the sea,
Do you think there is truth in them?
To be full like me: yet they say we are
of it, and the modesty of it, to be otherwise.
Ay, see the bishop be not overborne.
I tell thee, Kate, 'twas burnt and dried away;
O Lord, have mercy on me, woful man!
When I do weep, they humbly at my feet
And bind the boy which you shall find with me
Her uncle Rivers; yea, and, for her sake,
Becomes it thee to taunt his valiant age
Love for thy love and hand for hand I give.
You four, from hence to prison back again;
That two-fold balls and treble scepters carry:
Have all true rites and lawful ceremonies.
I saw't this morning: confident I am
I'll first direct my men what they shall do with the
But with thy brawls thou hast disturb'd our sport.
of her breath.'
Here where his daughter dwells; and on this coast
Shall leave his native channel and o'erswell
That she doth give her sorrow so much sway,
I pray you, give me leave.
but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
And there she shall at Friar Laurence' cell
You must not speak of that: you must desire them
Judas's own children.
I'll fight till from my bones my flesh be hack'd.
If your peevish chastity, which is not worth a
When I shall gust it last. How came't, Camillo,
What men of name are slain on either side?
Do, my lord.
Effect it with some care, that he may prove
Sit down with us: it ill befits thy state
And, as we march, our strength will be augmented
And God, not we, hath plagued thy bloody deed.
I was not born to die on Brutus' sword.
Be thy mouth or black or white,
I'll deny nothing.
PROLOGUE
the heart of my message.
But canst thou guess that he doth aim at it?
I am for it, lieutenant; and I'll do you justice.
Or Edward's soft and pitiful, like mine
Deliver all with charity.
And mark how well the sequel hangs together:
Take thou that too, with multiplying bans!
Young fry of treachery!
there's no labouring i' the winter. All that follow
I'll sauce them: they have had my house a week at
not Orlando.
Ay. Desdemona.
That mought not be distinguished; but at last
Good even, gentle friend. Cover thy head, cover thy
No more than he'll unswear.
shuffle, to hedge and to lurch; and yet you, rogue,
SCENE II. The Mart.
And here I'll fling the pillow, there the bolster,
Milk-liver'd man!
this from Hero. They seem to pity the lady: it
SCENE VII. A tent in the French camp. LEAR on a bed asleep,
You have done our pleasures much grace, fair ladies,
Now, good my lord,
Better consider what you have to do
You look but on a stool.
You spurn me hence, and he will spurn me hither:
cousin: I must say she is dead: and so, farewell.
Upon a soldier's thigh: I have seen the day,
my daughter: but 'tis no matter; better a little
That! what?
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
By gar, me dank you for dat: by gar, I love you;
I fear too much rubbing. Good night, my good owl.
Northumberland comes back from Bolingbroke.
Now let us on, my lords, and join our powers,
Why, all delights are vain; but that most vain,
Well, I will thither.
Is not this man jealous?
Here can I sit alone, unseen of any,
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away,
Is that true? why, then Othello and Desdemona
Why, how now, long-tongued Warwick! dare you speak?
goes to the wars, to grace himself at his return
Come, sir, to dinner. Dromio, keep the gate.
his head, and bring them both upon two poles hither.
Methought that Gloucester stumbled; and, in falling,
This office to you.
The king is mad: how stiff is my vile sense,
I did say so,
From giving reins and spurs to my free speech;
Exit
And be these juggling fiends no more believed,
Cannot but feel this wrong as 'twere their own;
Pardon me, dear madam;
To answer all the debt he owes to you
Gentle son Edward, thou wilt stay with me?
And have you?
And grief that young Octavius with Mark Antony
Commanded nature, that my lady's womb,
The gravity and stillness of your youth
That England, being empty of defence,
late innovation.
Fear me not, man; I will not break away:
I think my husband hath some special suspicion of
master parson; who writes himself 'Armigero,' in any
To weep is to make less the depth of grief:
Keep promise, love. Look, here comes Helena.
Will I give place or notice.
Be full expired. Thanks, uncle Winchester,
Enter a Servant
Most veritable; therefore look to't well.
How does thy honour? Let me lick thy shoe.
Desires your visitation, and to be
DUMB SHOW.
she holds it a vice in her goodness not to do more
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
Being prepared for land.
choice Italian: you shall see anon how the murderer
From love's weak childish bow she lives unharm'd.
Therefore, I say--
Unto our climatures and countrymen.--
To cut off those that have offended him.
And will no longer have it be delay'd.
I am best pleased with that.
It doth amount to one more than two.
Exeunt
Eyes, do you see?
Even fall upon my life.
Deep shame had struck me dumb, made me break off,
I would not, Cassius; yet I love him well.
My friend when he must need me. I do know him
My tongue hath but a heavier tale to say.
Ay, my lord cardinal? how think you by that?
Ah, poor our sex! this fault in us I find,
Aside
I thank thee; and I pray thee, once to-night
He will make you a hundred and fifty pounds jointure.
This is a lord! O noble misery,
Hath not thy rose a thorn, Plantagenet?
Now God in heaven forbid!
Ye have found him, cardinal:
See how my wretched sister sobs and weeps.
Exeunt
As new into the world, strange, unacquainted:
And ask him what apparel he will wear;
Or cease your quest of love?
according to his cue.
Good my liege,
thinking do not wrest true speaking, I'll offend
Pray you, come in;
countenance. Farewell: you shall find me in Eastcheap.
How now, my lord! I will the king hear this piece of work?
My humble thanks. I had almost forgot
Happy is Hermia, wheresoe'er she lies;
Are singled forth to try experiments:
That died in honour and Lavinia's cause.
An humble heart,--
And is it true that I must go from Troy?
That truth should be silent I had almost forgot.
Dispute not with her; she is lunatic.
Enter ROBERT and the BASTARD
And overheard what you shall overhear,
And let him take't at worst; for their knives care not,
better is it to weep at joy than to joy at weeping!
Presumptuous dame, ill-nurtured Eleanor,
Two mighty eagles fell, and there they perch'd,
Under your pardon. You must note beside,
He plucks it out of his bosom and reads it
not to be recovered.
I'll believe him as an enemy, and give over my trade.
Under a cloak that is of any length.
wicked. I must give over this life, and I will give
SCENE II. The Same. A street.
and keep place together than the Hundredth Psalm to
If you can, your reason?
Mine honour keeps the weather of my fate:
I shall be much bound to you for't: I am one that
But, Lepidus, go you to Caesar's house;
And sworn unto the practises of France,
And he that hath commanded is the king.
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works:
And tell the fishes he's the queen's son, Cloten:
[Aside to DOCTOR CAIUS]  Pray you, use your patience:
Why, brother Hector,
Unto a poor but worthy gentleman: she's wedded;
Of Arthur, who they say is kill'd to-night
Haply I do.
A smaller boon than this I cannot beg
I'ld throw it down for your deliverance
O, here he comes.
would go thither; so, indeed, all disquiet, horror
The worships of their name. O most small fault,
Well, I shall see her to-day. Hold, there's money
If ever I were wilful-negligent,
I do protest I never loved myself
What power the Duke of York had levied there;
Were wreck'd upon this shore; where I have lost--
To give thee answer of thy just demand.
I'll make him sure enough: so, farewell to your highness.
I had rather be a kitten and cry mew
I do not know that Englishman alive
Hath overta'en mine act.
from her: she is no equal for his birth: you may
taken such pains to bring you together, let all
To bring this tidings to the bloody king.
Lest it see more, prevent it. Out, vile jelly!
Trouble him no further; thus you still shall find him.
Holla, holla!
foul breath, and foul breath is noisome; therefore I
Of fire and water, when their thundering shock
Go to, go to!
Do you but mark how this becomes the house:
Who can be angry now? what envy reach you?
Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myself;
To have what we would have, we speak not what we mean:
Come hither, little kinsman; hark, a word.
Of his most sovereign name; consider little
Fare thee well, nymph: ere he do leave this grove,
Here Aaron is; and what with Aaron now?
Hail, most royal sir!
Thy beagles with thee.
And she must not speak
Deal between thee and me! for even now
mirror up to nature; to show virtue her own feature,
Would at a dismal treatise rouse and stir
To-morrow will I wear it on my helm,
Tush, tush!
Why should we in the compass of a pale
And lords and ladies in their lives
How low am I, thou painted maypole? speak;
And with uplifted arms is safe arrived
Who, he? I think the sun where he was born
And therefore we must needs admit the means
He is not Hector.
None!
Why, after I have cut the egg i' the middle, and eat
This is the hour that Madam Silvia
leave it to his discretion, and let us listen to the moon.
were not subject to a beast? and what a beast art
Come, lead me to the block; bear him my head.
assurance and all the preparation overthrown.
Exit
SCENE I. Court of Macbeth's castle.
Doth she not think me an old murderer,
To the water side I must conduct your grace;
Here's snip and nip and cut and slish and slash,
The cause betwixt her and this great offender.
Will serve the turn.
O Fate! take not away thy heavy hand.
Hath clapp'd his tail between his legs and cried:
Proposing with the prince and Claudio:
That not a horse is half the half of himself.
terms: that is the humour of it.
Go, presently inquire, and so will I,
For thou hast shown some sign of good desert--
[Reads]  'Thou killest me like a rogue and a villain.'
Here is my hand, the deed is worthy doing.
Nay, then I cannot blame his cousin king,
Give up your body to such sweet uncleanness
O my Antonio, had I but the means
As this pomp shows to a little oil and root.
Interprets for my poor ignorance.
A perilous gash, a very limb lopp'd off:
Here, Marcus, fold it in the oration;
Thus would I wear them out.
I wish him joy of her.
With all my heart; and, when you come ashore,
Unhappy were you, madam, ere I came;
As shall with either part's agreement stand?
Enter CAPULET, PARIS, and Servant
He had need mean better than his outward show
And kill me too.
SCENE II. OLIVIA's house.
To boot, and boot!
You have received your griefs; nor are they such
For you, fair Hermia, look you arm yourself
[To the Commons, entering]  Sirs, stand apart;
Great Lord of Warwick, if we should recount
I quote it in your jerkin.
Brown, madam: and her forehead
If not at court,
marry, and yet now, in despite of his heart, he eats
From him that fled some strange indignity,
Where are these lads? where are these hearts?
Christendom.
That every Roman bears, and nobly bears,
Pray you, let's to him.
monster! when 's god's asleep, he'll rob his bottle.
Ten thousand bloody crowns of mothers' sons
Or from our masters?
That's well spoke.
Say what I think of it, since I have found
The earth that's nature's mother is her tomb;
The husbandry and manage of my house
Ask what thou wilt. That I had said and done!
He is as horribly conceited of him; and pants and
Upon surmises, all proofs sleeping else
treasons, makes me betake me to my heels.
Amen.
My tongue hath wrong'd him: if it do him right,
Let's talk of graves, of worms, and epitaphs;
Prove it before these varlets here, thou honourable
In poor beseeming; 'twas a fitment for
the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
The unworthiest shows as fairly in the mask.
What needs this iteration, woman? I say thy husband.
an you be a cursing hypocrite once, you must be looked to.
For your advancement! Do you understand me?
Have notice what we purpose. I shall break
Conceives by me! How likes Hortensio that?
There are two lodged together.
Enter Surveyor
commonwealth; or rather, not pray to her, but prey
And we may soon our satisfaction have
Not a resemblance, but a certainty. Yet since I see
And why not queen?
Why should a man, whose blood is warm within,
Prick love for pricking, and you beat love down.
Show nothing but confusion, eyed awry
How esteemest thou me? I account of her beauty.
That like events may ne'er it ruinate.
And humbly now upon my bended knee,
Which is but cold, inflaming love i' thy bosom,
Hold; get you gone, be strong and prosperous
Our most disloyal lady, for, as she hath
two of the house of the Montagues.
They are the faction. O conspiracy,
And minister correction to thy fault!
Enter KENT
Shall I tell you a lie? I do despise a liar as I do
This oily rascal is known as well as Paul's. Go,
They fall their crests, and, like deceitful jades,
To see her women? any of them? Emilia?
chamber: I'll be so bold as stay, sir, till she come
Lucius and I'll go brave it at the court:
That there should be small love 'mongst these
Shed for my thankless country are requited
Most honourably doth unhold his word.
No matter:--wear them, betray with them: whore still;
Most sure and vulgar: every one hears that,
Things that, to hear them told, have made me tremble;
Re-enter SALISBURY
See, and then speak yourselves.
But first, to try her skill,
Grant me the combat, gracious sovereign.
How I might stop this tempest ere it came;
Squeezing the juice on LYSANDER's eyes
towards London.
Know you of this taxation?
Good morrow.
To bring your most imperial majesties
'Tis in my memory lock'd,
When vice makes mercy, mercy's so extended,
For what?
For such a guest is meet.
Enter EXTON and Servant
His faith, his sweet disaster; with a world
You have undone a man of fourscore three,
She passes praise; then praise too short doth blot.
coxcomb, is it meet, think you, that we should also,
Been justled from your senses, know for certain
him use for it, a double heart for his single one:
This may plant courage in their quailing breasts;
fire-shovel: I knew by that piece of service the
And his great person perish.
Say you have wrong'd her, sir.
And where the offence is let the great axe fall.
My dagger in my mouth. Say what thou art,
For all the water in the ocean
Either in discourse of thought or actual deed,
And like the watchful minutes to the hour,
I know it;
And in my house you shall be friendly lodged:
if alive, I will strike it out soundly.
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
She whom thou gavest to me to be my wife,
This yellow slave
Mounsieur Cobweb, good mounsieur, get you your
Out of a fortitude of soul I feel,
Hail, noble Marcius!
Is couched in the woodbine coverture.
God save your majesty! and well met, gentlemen:
Commends him to you.
His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
Welcome, my lord: I marvel our mild husband
We have no reason to desire it,
You'ld call your children yours.
But if you know not this, my manners tell me
Can found his state in safety. Caphis, ho!
Exeunt
This bawd, this broker, this all-changing word,
No, Master Brook; but the peaking Cornuto her
An ordinary groom is for such payment.
But, my good lord,
Carry his honours even: whether 'twas pride,
How if it come to thee again?
And therefore certainly it were not good
'Fore God, I think so.
But time hath nothing blurr'd those lines of favour
Enter POLONIUS
Thinking upon his services, took from you
Brother, you have a vice of mercy in you,
Are full of rest, defense, and nimbleness.
Ladies, you are not merry: gentlemen,
Directly to his good? Divinity of hell!
That will I do.
together is, abandon the society of this female, or,
Dat it is not be de fashion pour les ladies of
Of place, time, fortune, do cohere and jump
Than my out-wall, open this purse, and take
Why, then your uncle and the prince and Claudio
Than two tens to a score.
The sudden hand of death close up mine eye!
That will take pains to blow a horn before her?
Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail!
But sway'd and fashion'd by the hand of heaven.
As water in a sieve: give not me counsel;
Even from the east to the west!
March afar off
And for his meed, poor lord, he is mew'd up.
We owe thee much! within this wall of flesh
Nay, we must longer kneel: I am a suitor.
Love looks not with the eyes, but with the mind;
We'll draw cuts for the senior: till then lead thou first.
SCENE III. Rome. A room in Marcius' house.
Before we hear him, of some things of weight
Below their cobbled shoes. They say there's
Slew three opposers: Tarquin's self he met,
Letting 'I dare not' wait upon 'I would,'
chains: no hearing, no feeling, but my sir's song,
That stands upon the rolling restless stone--
mayor's sword borne before us.
How far you satisfied me.
Sir, we are undone; these are the villains
Exeunt
Ascend his throne, descending now from him;
Enter MARCIUS and TITUS LARTIUS with a trumpet
The more my wrong, the more his spite appears:
Go in, Nerissa;
Thy sheep shall take no harm.
The pitfall nor the gin.
I am not mad: I would to heaven I were!
Helen, I love thee; by my life, I do:
From glistering semblances of piety;
The other, that he do record a gift,
Some, that are mad if they behold a cat;
Give me some wine, and let me speak a little.
Here to this devil, to deliver you.
Can lay to bed for ever; whiles you, doing thus,
My mistress loved thee, and her fortunes mingled
Why dost thou stay?
Such it seems
Ah, well-a-day! he's dead, he's dead, he's dead!
And  [Censorinus,]  nobly named so,
Under the veil of wildness; which, no doubt,
Hath made the flinty and steel couch of war
Indeed!
Dead, then?
Shall rust upon my weapon, till thy blood,
God give us leisure for these rites of love!
Upon my knowledge, he is, and lousy.
Let us not leave till all our own be won.
Why of thy thought, Iago?
An oath, an oath, I have an oath in heaven:
My purpose was for Tarsus, there to strike
Ay, sir, I have them at my fingers' ends: marry,
Doth not Brutus bootless kneel?
Such as my heart doth tremble to unfold.
For other service first: toward Ephesus
Why lifts she up her arms in sequence thus?
The thing I have forsworn to grant may never
ever went on four legs cannot make him give ground;
You know not
For the hot vengeance and the rod of heaven
Let me shake thy hand;
No settled senses of the world can match
Devise the fittest time and safest way
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  When he was made a shriver,
So good as you have done.
Could not out-peer these twain. Pardon me, gods!
'Tis even so; yet you are Warwick still.
porringer fell off her head, for kindling such a
Re-enter ANTONIO, with the Ladies masked
I grant it: pray; but be not tedious,
Good my lord, enter here.
My ventures are not in one bottom trusted,
A cause more promising
me: hush, hush!
First mine own service to your grace; the next,
My proud heart sues, and prompts my tongue to speak.
The suit which you demand is gone and dead:
Reading
We'll not be nice: take hands. We will not dance.
DON ADRIANO DE ARMADO.'
Even such a husband
Thou hast made me now a man! never, before
Another way I have to man my haggard,
There let his head and lifeless body lie,
Master Parson Evans I will do what I can for your
When, for some trifling present, you have bid me
To have you therein my companion.
thy wrongs;
As, sick and blunted with community,
You are a spirit, I know: when did you die?
Stay, though thou kill me, sweet Demetrius.
Bench by his side:
Some of those branches by the Destinies cut;
These English woes will make me smile in France.
Your worship's friend and Launcelot, sir.
My art is not past power nor you past cure.
When rich ones scarce tell true. To lapse in fulness
obstruction in this: and the end,--what should
afternoon?
'Tis but fortune; all is fortune. Maria once told
But that I was a journeyman to grief?
You?
it argues an act: and an act hath three branches: it
Let it be so; thy truth, then, be thy dower:
Than one of these same metre ballad-mongers;
Would long ere this have met us on the way
Wake when some vile thing is near.
A scatter'd smile, and that I'll live upon.
Thou pray'st not well.
How rank soever rounded in with danger.
May this, almost a miracle, be done?
She well instructs me.
To tear with thunder the wide cheeks o' the air,
The duke be here to-night? The better! best!
Exeunt
Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signior Leonato?
We do condemn thee to the very block
Of government the properties to unfold,
To hear the lamentations of Poor Anne,
Of my more fierce endeavour: I have seen drunkards
We answer others' merits in our name,
Nor on the beasts themselves, the birds, and fishes;
And now they meet where both their lives are done.
A man, the worst about you.
Sweet youth, I pray you, chide a year together:
My lord, do you see these meteors? do you behold
And he shall wear his crown by sea and land,
To VIOLA
[Within]  Mother, mother, mother!
Honour'd, beloved; and haply one as kind
Flaminius; you are very respectively welcome, sir.
I crave fit disposition for my wife.
What devil art thou, that dost torment me thus?
makes honest, and those that she makes honest she
Nothing so heavy as these woes of mine.
To better purpose.
That nature, being sick of man's unkindness,
Exeunt
Jeweller: You know me, Apemantus?
Wilt thou not, Jule?' it stinted and said 'Ay.'
Would, each to other and all loves to both,
Re-enter POLIXENES
Page. Said I well?
To suffer with the body: I'll forbear;
Greet you our victory? you look like Romans,
Exit Chamberlain
We must, with all our majesty and skill,
To crop at once a too long wither'd flower.
Thrown such despite and heavy terms upon her,
We may of their encounter frankly judge,
Sour-eyed disdain and discord shall bestrew
Of our proceedings kept the earl from hence:
Or nature makes me suddenly relent.
When back again this ring shall be deliver'd:
Without or grudge or grumblings: thou didst promise
twenty, good Master Page! Master Page, will you go
Do not think, gentlemen. I am drunk: this is my
And therefore law shall scorn him further trial
Sleep when he wakes and creep into the jaundice
If your worship will take order for the drabs and
Not what is dangerous present, but the loss
Have I thought long to see this morning's face,
The true succeeders of each royal house,
Say, you chose him
We coursed him at the heels, and had a purpose
That labouring art can never ransom nature
Which with pain purchased doth inherit pain:
What was your dream? I long to hear you tell it.
I have a wife, whom, I protest, I love:
Ah, Juliet, if the measure of thy joy
And to you all, good health.
Alack, there lies more peril in thine eye
Ay, our way to be gone.
And cut her hands and trimm'd her as thou saw'st.
O excellent devise! make a sop of him.
His highness shall speak in, I do beseech
With things forgotten. Kind gentlemen, your pains
If your honour judge it meet, I will place you
they would else have married me to the rotten medlar.
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes
Which renders good for bad, blessings for curses.
No nightingale: look, love, what envious streaks
Whilst the heavy ploughman snores,
Her ashes, in an urn more precious
That, indeed, Sir John, is my business.
He, being in the vaward, placed behind
Some light-foot friend post to the Duke of Norfolk:
Be certain what you do, sir, lest your justice
Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
Comes fast upon. Good my brother Troilus,
good leg will fall; a straight back will stoop; a
I shall never begin if I hold my peace.
In good time, sir; what's that?
The death I gave him. So, again, good night.
We'll have no Cupid hoodwink'd with a scarf,
Enter LAFEU
And enter in our ears like great triumphers
And wonder greatly that man's face can fold
We must be brief when traitors brave the field.
And that distill'd by magic sleights
And, Romans, fight for freedom in your choice.
Nay, but, my lord,--
Believe it, my lord, in mine own direct knowledge,
And free access and favour as the rest:
Thou art, as you are all, a sorceress:
Thou hast repeal'd, a second time receive
Yet you are curb'd from that enlargement by
What shall I do the where? where bide? how live?
But, God he knows, thy share thereof is small:
man: thou shouldst neither want my means for thy
Of one not easily jealous, but being wrought
person hath here writ. I must to the learned.--In good time.
Re-enter the Lords, Senators,  and c
And make a pastime of each weary step,
Of all these bounds, even from this line to this,
is, to act, to do, to perform: argal, she drowned
But I will go. Go you before me, sirrah;
I am indeed.
Be free, and fare thou well! Please you, draw near.
Let us assail the family of York.
Which must be acted ere they may be scann'd.
The very life seems warm upon her lip.
Give me your gloves, I'll wear them for your sake;
'Tis conceived to scope.
The bow is bent and drawn, make from the shaft.
Confronted him with self-comparisons,
my horse to my mistress.
Who is this? my niece, that flies away so fast!
As mine own face. If there be cords, or knives,
'Tis not the king that sends you to the Tower:
Enter SILVIA above
You will not, then?
As I am woman,--now alas the day!--
And hear the sentence of your moved prince.
Why force you this?
And threat the glory of my precious crown.
The dearest friend to me, the kindest man,
My boon I make it, that you know me not
How died my master, Strato?
To their right praise and true perfection!
From whence you have them. You are jealous now
What will your grace have done with Margaret?
pray you, why is it?
Sir, my liege,
There might have been,
The Archbishop's grace of York, Douglas, Mortimer,
And in that shame still live my sorrow's rage.
And so have I, boy.
If a crow help us in, sirrah, we'll pluck a crow together.
No, 'tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a
Hath made thy person for the thrower-out
Worse than the worst, content.
O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
velvet. Thou art the list.
But let them hear what fearful words I utter.
He knows himself my bed he hath defiled;
be swine-drunk; and in his sleep he does little
The words of heaven; on whom it will, it will;
Now, by my sceptre's awe, I make a vow,
Hence, pack! there's gold; you came for gold, ye slaves:
No, for then we should be colliers.
Bastards, and else.
Daughter, well met.
A bold brave gentleman. That should be
Signior Baptista, will you be so strange?
As draw his sword; yet he hath left undone
In feather'd briefness sails are fill'd,
While I do run upon it. Wilt thou, Strato?
Go with the princes, or stay here with us?
Or murmuring 'Where's my serpent of old Nile?'
eats cow-dung for sallets; swallows the old rat and
Of you, Lord Rivers, and, Lord Grey, of you;
Enter Ghost
I'll bring him the best 'parel that I have,
SCENE I. A hall In ANGELO's house.
Their hands and faces were an badged with blood;
In night, and on the court and guard of safety!
As my Antigonus to break his grave
Which honour and allegiance cannot think.
But why should honour outlive honesty?
Cousin, all honour to thee!
accusative, hung, hang, hog.
To pray Achilles see us at our tent.
And not our streets with war!
Of all this table, say so.
Who is it that hath warn'd us to the walls?
As procurator to your excellence,
Thou art reverent
go and vetch me in my closet un boitier vert, a box,
Sodden business! there's a stewed phrase indeed!
Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome,
Come hither, Proculeius. Go and say,
A noble cunning: you were used to load me
You are resolute, then?
Hereafter, in a better world than this,
O, let those cities that of plenty's cup
Unclaim'd of any man. But who comes here?
Doth long to see unarm'd the valiant Hector.
As well possess'd; my love is more than his;
Well, in that hit you miss: she'll not be hit
take it for your pains.
Come, boy, prepare yourself.
Sits safe and still without him.
Marry, sir, 'tis an ill cook that cannot lick his
I kiss his conquering hand: tell him, I am prompt
I see before me, man: nor here, nor here,
Then must my sea be moved with her sighs;
I have sent to bid Cassio come speak with you.
Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse
Her height, forsooth, she hath prevail'd with him.
[Within]  You shall not come to them.
Be ruled by me: depart in patience,
There is some soul of goodness in things evil,
Where, by the loss of maidenhead,
Till the last trumpet: for charitable prayers,
True; and thy master a shepherd.
ever know unthrift that was beloved after his means?
Which read and not expounded, 'tis decreed,
And make him stoop to the vale. 'Tis wonder
Mort de ma vie! if they march along
For then I should not love thee, no, nor thou
Unto that element: but long it could not be
Exeunt, bearing MARK ANTONY
Sola! did you see Master Lorenzo?
something: but I make my wager rather against your
He was as calm as virtue--he began
Where we do reign, we will alone uphold,
That, for a fantasy and trick of fame,
Yes, Warwick, Edward dares, and leads the way.
Well, what then?
with the buttock of the night than with the forehead
laid by, in his nakedness he appears but a man; and
double gilt of this opportunity you let time wash
Such griefs as you yourself do lay upon yourself.
Sir John Bracy from your father; you must to the
is to look into happiness through another man's
'Tis the right ring, by heaven: I told ye all,
Be guilty of the stealing that sweet breath
And said, 'Dear brother, live, and be a king'?
If!
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, and MECAENAS, with his Army; OCTAVIUS CAESAR reading a letter
SCENE IV. Paris. The palace.
thou sawest me not. Fare thee well.
Madam, I come to whet your gentle thoughts
A lovely boy, stolen from an Indian king;
Yea, so familiar!
Uncouple here and let us make a bay
the knave and get thee, I am much deceived. But,
Nor moody beggars, starving for a time
go on the right hand: I will but look upon the
I prithee, good Grumio, tell me, how goes the world?
yesty collection, which carries them through and
prunes; and having but two in the dish, as I said,
O monstrous, monstrous! and so falls it out
Demurely wake the sleepers. Let us bear him
protector.
I was a fine fool to take it. I must take out the
The conclusion is then that it will.
Under an oak, whose boughs were moss'd with age
Mark Antony, so well beloved of Caesar,
From women's eyes this doctrine I derive:
I know not yet.
thy love? I could: shall I entreat thy love? I
My soul upon the forfeit, that your lord
Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world,
For here's a young and sweating devil here,
When mercy seasons justice. Therefore, Jew,
Kisses OCTAVIA
Cursed the blood that let this blood from hence!
Whose figure even this instant cloud puts on,
If it be not for some purpose of import,
We should take root here where we sit, or sit
Diet his sickness, for it is my office,
Who would be jealous then of such a one?
another punishment?
As they contend with thee in courtesy.
Was the hope drunk
It shall do well: but yet do I believe
I am a wise fellow, and, which is more, an officer,
What talk you of the posy or the value?
All, all; and, moreover, God saw him when he was
God-a-mercy! so should I be sure to be heart-burned.
Read on this book;
Exit BASTARD
If thou canst serve where thou dost stand condemn'd,
Produce his body to the market-place;
Some certain of the noblest-minded Romans
could to die before, and he is one of the patterns
Hark, do you hear the sea?
Would he had been one of my rank!
Stand in assured loss: take up, take up;
So can I name his faults,--
Not half so bad as thine to England's king,
Faster than gnats in cobwebs; but her eyes,--
To any lady that subdues a lord.
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
description the matter to you, if you be capacity of it.
In Belmont is a lady richly left;
fair weather that you make yourself: it is needful
Mock not my senseless conjuration, lords:
but for a fine, quaint, graceful and excellent
Exit a Servant
Why do you speak so faintly?
Get you to bed again; it is not day.
Enter a Nurse, with a blackamoor Child in her arms
Away! for death doth hold us in pursuit.
I will go seek the king.
I know you wise, but yet no farther wise
As I wish you were.
Gorging and feeding from our soldiers' hands;
labelled to my will: as, item, two lips,
Where is your master?
Do wound the bark, the skin of our fruit-trees,
In women's waxen hearts to set their forms!
The superstitious idle-headed eld
O pity! Sir, where is the patience now,
If friend or foe, let him be gently used.
To Master Brook you yet shall hold your word
Give me leave to speak.
This your request
And that I partly know the instrument
what; for if I tell you, I am no true Athenian. I
When down her weedy trophies and herself
should be lewdly given, he deceiveth me; for, Harry,
Nor the all-dreaded thunder-stone;
but ignorance; in which thou art more puzzled than
Have there injointed them with an after fleet.
Suppose, my lords, he did it unconstrain'd,
A ghostly father, belike. Who knows that Lodowick?
crutches ere he was born desire yet their life to
Thy slanders I forgive; and therewithal
Re-enter MARIA
And presently, when you have drawn your number,
Stay there, sir,
In that thou seest thy wretched brother die,
out-herods Herod: pray you, avoid it.
Of her that threw it: noble she was, and thought
She is alone.
Things hid and barr'd, you mean, from common sense?
That do corrupt my air, I banish you;
Unfeeling fools can with such wrongs dispense.
Welcome, AEmilius	what's the news from Rome?
You are unkind, Demetrius; be not so;
No sleep close up that deadly eye of thine,
Though chance of war hath wrought this change of cheer,
The name of help grew odious to repeat.
matters grow to your likings.
Then shall I swear to Kate, and you to me;
For ever and a day.
Where left we last?
O thou side-piercing sight!
The old proverb is very well parted between my
Ere we depart, we'll share a bounteous time
Which God defend that I should wring from him!
For God's sake, send some other messenger.
And make him weigh with her.
Your grace must needs deserve all strangers' loves,
Then be still.
I do beseech you, as in way of taste,
Which will become you both, farewell.
All blest secrets,
scarce to be worth talking of: therefore draw, for
How far hence is thy lord, mine honest fellow?
Ajax is grown self-will'd, and bears his head
The rest I'd give to be to you translated.
Sir Thomas Lovell, I as free forgive you
For who digs hills because they do aspire
Fear not, my lord, we will not stand to prate;
Is her own dower; honour and wealth from me.
And, like a man to double business bound,
The instruments that feel.
If this prove true, they'll pay for't:
This villanous salt-petre should be digg'd
As well I tender you and all of yours!
I am a simple woman, much too weak
Whereof I shall not have intelligence.
No, thou stand'st single, thou'rt not on him yet.
Why, hers, in part or all; but rather, all;
my ribs. Father, I am glad you are come: give me
The eye of reason may pry in upon us:
Nay, if Cupid have not spent all his quiver in
Is Romeo slaughter'd, and is Tybalt dead?
retire, and the Duke of Exeter is master of the
For the remembrance of my father's death.
She excels each mortal thing
Enter BERTRAM and DIANA
This ring was mine; and, when I gave it Helen,
of no having: he kept company with the wild prince
To bear your griefs yourself and leave me out;
I charge you, as you hope to have redemption
The question did at first so stagger me,
HAMLET moves him to put on his hat
Pursued him still: and, three nights after this,
such a fellow, to say precisely, were not for the
Last in the field, and almost lords of it!
Look, what I speak, or do, or think to do,
Chalks successors their way, nor call'd upon
With Roger Bolingbroke, the conjurer?
If you suppose as fearing you it shook.
Look, where they come:
Will not peruse the foils; so that, with ease,
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
Enter Chancellor; places himself at the upper end  of the table on the left hand; a seat being left  void above him, as for CRANMER's seat. SUFFOLK,  NORFOLK, SURREY, Chamberlain, GARDINER, seat  themselves in order on each side. CROMWELL at lower end, as secretary. Keeper at the door
carving the fashion of a new doublet. He was wont to
I did, my lord.
Through ranks of Greekish youth, and I have seen thee,
His face thou hast, for even so look'd he,
Will it consume me? let me see it, then.
Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
And Humphrey with the peers be fall'n at jars:
he be angry indeed.
And dare not take up arms like gentlemen.
Well, bring our lady hither to our sight;
And then be gone and trouble you no more.
Let mine own judgment pattern out my death,
To him that victory commands? or do you purpose
Never to woo her no more, but do forswear her,
For she did print your royal father off,
That makes him gasp and stare and catch the air,
Which false hope lingers in extremity.
Now is that noble vessel full of grief,
I must aboard to-morrow.
As from your graves rise up, and walk like sprites,
Have banish'd me from Scotland. O my breast,
Attend the sequel of your imposition,
O, speak to me no more;
Exit BOULT
Well, sir.
All you that see her, that she were a maid,
Re-enter TIMON and FLAVIUS
This king unto him took a fere,
Art thou my boy?
Cuts off the ceremonious vows of love
ANTIPHOLUS
Help, three o' the chiefest soldiers; I'll be one.
How blessed are we that are not simple men!
At some hours in the night spirits resort;--
To the old dam, treason,--Charles the emperor,
so conclusions passed the careires.
Follow me, soldiers: we'll devise a mean
I will fetch him.
knowledge of his directions: by Cheshu, he will
To enter in the thoughts of desperate men!
card, or equivocation will undo us. By the Lord,
When I came hither to transport the tidings,
Betwixt us as the cement of our love,
I will be your Rosalind in a more coming-on
with a wench.
And ban thine enemies, both mine and thine!
It not concern'd me.
Faith, sirrah, an you'll not knock, I'll ring it;
And your supply, which you have wish'd so long,
Upon my life, Petruchio means but well,
Think that you are upon a rock; and now
I swear I'll cuff you, if you strike again.
Four lagging winters and four wanton springs
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And will not temporize with my entreaties;
Another lean unwash'd artificer
O blood-besotted Neapolitan,
So take her to thee, shepherd: fare you well.
More than the common blocks: not noted, is't,
I will not be your friend nor enemy:
Trudge, plod away o' the hoof; seek shelter, pack!
Let not the cloud of sorrow justle it
My lord, when shall we go to Cheapside and take up
From off the gates of York fetch down the head,
Not a word.
Of all his people shall revolt from him
The azured harebell, like thy veins, no, nor
The fatal balls of murdering basilisks:
And from the great and new-made Duke of Suffolk,
Who respects friend?
Now Lord be thanked for my good amends!
affirm it.
Ay, madam, but returns again to-night.
'Sigeia tellus,' disguised thus to get your love;
A virgin from her tender infancy,
To England's king in lawful marriage.
Shouts within
All happiness bechance to thee in Milan!
But now he parted hence, to embark for Milan.
I go, I go; look how I go,
It is a conquest for a prince to boast of.
SCENE I. London. A street.
Now, by my holidame, here comes Katharina!
Seeing his reputation touch'd to death,
In reverend Cerimon there well appears
they should have any allegiance in them, being
That I assure you:
By sovereignty of nature. First he was
No; bear it with you, lest I come not time enough.
The other's peace: till then, blows, blood and death!
And will you credit this base drudge's words,
And now and then an ample tear trill'd down
With them he enters; who, upon the sudden,
He and his forces enter the city
God bless me from a challenge!
Currents that spring from one most gracious head,
A prating boy, that begg'd it as a fee:
written, they appear to men like angels of light:
To-morrow, as he purposes.
Will you go?
My lady charged my duty in this business.
First hang the child, that he may see it sprawl;
Before we proceed any further, hear me speak.
Fame, at the which he aims,
Renounce your soil, give sheep in lions' stead:
Ten and eleven. Woman, commend me to her; I will
Against what should ensue.
But we must win your grace to go with us
If there be rule in unity itself,
Else with the like I had requited him.
Three times did Richard make a lane to me.
Hearing the surges threat: we must all part
To dew the sovereign flower and drown the weeds.
The strongest nerves and small inferior veins
The commons hast thou rack'd; the clergy's bags
'Gainst parricides did all their thunders bend;
Exeunt, marching
No, cloven.
Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow
You heavens, give me that patience, patience I need!
These eyes, these brows, were moulded out of his:
Whilst what we have kill'd be cook'd.
Ay, and mark thee too, Jack.
Will do his bidding. Brutus, come apace,
I am commanded, with your leave and favour,
That neither singly can be manifested,
And I will bring him to the Capitol.
For I, too fond, might have prevented this.
Think you, but that I know our state secure,
Of prisoners' ransom and of soldiers slain,
And so am I.
The best persuasions to the contrary
So then it seems your most offenceful act
And tread upon his neck.
And orphans for their parents timeless death--
I every day expect an embassage
To his most royal person, hither come
Farewell, old Gaunt: thy sometimes brother's wife
Ajax hath ta'en AEneas: shall it be?
Our point of second meeting. Do you find
A happy gentleman in blood and lineaments,
thank God you are rid of a knave.
What need a man care for a stock with a wench, when
And my desires, like fell and cruel hounds,
To tear the garter from thy craven's leg,
Exeunt
Exit
this that so seriously he does address himself unto?
So God help Warwick, as he loves the land,
You do unbend your noble strength, to think
O slow-wing'd turtle! shall a buzzard take thee?
Now does my project gather to a head:
News, news from heaven! Marcus, the post is come.
Yet hath he in him such a mind of honour.
That can translate the stubbornness of fortune
O, sir, pardon me!
How now, my love! why is your cheek so pale?
Bound me in servitude.
having no eyes, look you, wept herself blind at my
With the ancient of war on our proceedings.
true descent;
Lo, now, if it lay in their hands to make me a
By Dromio here, who came in haste for it.
I now beseech you, for your daughter's sake,
Thy dowerless daughter, king, thrown to my chance,
Hoping you'll find good cause to whip them all.
Ay, an it like your good worship.
Get me some poison, Iago; this night: I'll not
As they say spirits do, at midnight, have
No yellow in't, lest she suspect, as he does,
the breach yourselves made, you lose your city. It
too picked, too spruce, too affected, too odd, as it
It may be I shall raise you by and by
Till then, my noble friend, chew upon this:
His means of death, his obscure funeral--
Exeunt
Away, I do beseech you, both away:
Relent! 'tis cowardly and womanish.
Exit
Which now the manage of two kingdoms must
Rich, only to be wretched, thy great fortunes
The Second Knight passes over
pray heartily, pardon me.
Should so with civil and uncivil arms
Are you at leisure, holy father, now;
Trust not my reading nor my observations,
Which never hopes more heaven than rests in thee,
And if she did play false, the fault was hers;
Than to entreaty.
Truly deliver.
All these the enemies to our poor bark.
are forgiven you, you're well to live. Gold! all gold!
This proves me still a sheep.
Sits on his horseback at mine hostess' door,
Lord bless me! I pray God! for I am never able to
The better cherish'd, still the nearer death.
Exit
Enter MARK ANTONY with Attendants
your worship well; God restore you to health! I
And from thy justice fly.
Are you a comedian?
But knows of him no more. My dearest madam,
Why, now you speak
And I am your Rosalind.
Where have you left the money that I gave you?
Since it hath been beforehand with our griefs.
And every one shall share i' the gains;
Though Richard my life's counsel would not hear,
What manner of fellow was he that robbed you?
SCENE IV. Another part of the same street, before the house of BRUTUS.
Whose absence is no less material to me
Cries 'come' to him that instantly must die.
not show itself modest enough without a badge of
'Twixt two extremes of passion, joy and grief,
For we are old, and on our quick'st decrees
Puts off his helmet and hangs his shield behind him
Fair lords, take leave and stand not to reply.
head-piece.
Is room enough: this earth that bears thee dead
O, then it moved her.
Luxurious, avaricious, false, deceitful,
What would these strangers? know their minds, Boyet:
I, thus neglecting worldly ends, all dedicated
Shalt with him hence.
A prince of power.
against me,
I think, at the north gate; for there stand lords.
The horsemen sit like fixed candlesticks,
throstle sing, he falls straight a capering: he will
Up, sir, go with me;
Spare your arithmetic: never count the turns;
Appears before them, and with solemn march
Faith, I'll home to-morrow, Sir Toby: your niece
Great happiness!
SCENE I. A public place.
The most convenient place that I can think of
Florence, of a most chaste renown; and this night he
So, lie thou there: die thou, and die our fear;
Of my lord's health, of his content, yet not
By each at once her chappy finger laying
Ring the alarum-bell! Blow, wind! come, wrack!
Choler does kill me that thou art alive;
Why, very well, then; I hope here be truths.
Beneath is all the fiends';
Who was it?
A hateful truth.
All the pictures fairest lined
Upon your grace's part; black and fearful
with an ordinary fool that has no more brain
Ay, my good lord.
Aside
But I go away with two.
majesty, in my conscience.
He will the rather do it when he sees
With that same weak wind which enkindled it.
Not so, sir, I do care for something; but in my
Is this a holiday? what! know you not,
Go, tell the Count Rousillon, and my brother,
For good Lord Titus' innocence in all;
Hark, hark! I hear the minstrels play.
Our aery buildeth in the cedar's top,
I must not have you henceforth question me
For urging it the second time to me.
I do desire the like.
Safe toward your love and honour.
Our rustic garden's barren; and I care not
God in heaven bless her!
great meals of beef and iron and steel, they will
I have heard of such. What slave art thou?
Marry, so it doth appear
And anon, sir,
my daughter; which, in the minority of them both,
And his disciples only envy at,
avouch the justice of your dealing?
You take my lord, I'll give him my commission
orthography, as to speak dout, fine, when he should
another thing: we must have a wall in the great
allow of thy wits, and fear to kill a woodcock, lest
For England!
files: I would do the man what honour I can, but of
And all unlook'd for from your highness' mouth:
The blood upon your visage dries; 'tis time
Under whose government come they along?
I keep a servant fee'd. I will to-morrow,
The penance lies on you, if these fair ladies
But, as a brother to his sister, show'd
And fall to reprobation.
Vouchsafe my labour, and long live your lordship!
To bandy hasty words, to scant my sizes,
can lick their fingers.
Keep in that mind; I'll deserve it.
Here is no drink! Hark, Marcus, what she says;
By envy's hand and murder's bloody axe.
to see Caesar and to rejoice in his triumph.
hath him, and that soundly.
And his device, a wreath of chivalry;
To Theseus must be wedded, and you come
Some thousand verses of a faithful lover,
O, teach me how I should forget to think.
Of noisome musty chaff: he said 'twas folly,
As mice by lions--hath pick'd out an act,
The rather will I spare my praises towards him:
Or perform my bidding, or thou livest in woe;
By sending me a letter? Read it again.
Nay, bear three daughters: by your leave I speak it,
He hath bought a pair of cast lips of Diana: a nun
Turning again toward childish treble, pipes
Exit
ACT V
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
Order gave each thing view; the office did
This was the sport, my lord: when Publius shot,
The Frenchman gave you, bring you in fine together
To make this banquet; which I wish may prove
live. My lady would not lose him for more than I'll say.
Right worthy you priority.
To wear your gentle limbs in my affairs,
Country call'd his! and you his mistress, only
nor pibble pabble in Pompey's camp; I warrant you,
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
What chance is this that suddenly hath cross'd us?
Graze where you will you shall not house with me:
I yield all this;
I seek not to wax great by others' waning,
E'en so, sir, as I say. And, for thy fiction,
brother, was a villain.
It is not worth leave-taking.
If good, why do I yield to that suggestion
I have been, madam, a wicked creature, as you and
Sir, in good sooth, in sincere verity,
How will she love, when the rich golden shaft
In that same place thou hast appointed me,
Nay, my lord,
by the will of a dead father. Is it not hard,
Now, by Saint George, I am too young for you.
Hold out this tempest. Bear away that child
sometimes by chance: let me pocket up my pedlar's excrement.
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
more, a hundred of them.
And makes men mad.
This juggling witchcraft with revenue cherish,
[Reads]
But five and twenty. O God, thy arm was here;
True:
The element itself, till seven years' heat,
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting:
Have been as bondmen to thy sovereignty.
Witness the tiring day and heavy night;
Exeunt
What they are, yet I know not: but they shall be
Wishing me with him, partner of his fortune.
Then for her wealth's sake use her with more kindness:
They that add, moreover, he's drunk nightly in your company.
The little O, the earth.
In brief, a braver choice of dauntless spirits
Unworthy as she is, that we have wrought
Will with a trumpet 'twixt our tents and Troy
To him forthwith in holy wedlock bands.
Exeunt, marching
to-day; whereupon the Grecians begin to proclaim
than a fellow, look you now, of no merits, he is
Why uncle, thou hast many years to live.
Spoke to your deservings like a chronicle,
Exeunt
Canst thou hold up thy heavy eyes awhile,
Who? Silvia?
SCENE III. A field near Windsor.
Exit SHYLOCK
The period of thy tyranny approacheth.
Boy, thou hast said to me a thousand times
Unlikely wonders; how these vain weak nails
Enter CAIUS MARCIUS
The one I have almost forgot,--your pardon,--
What means that hand upon that breast of thine?
To change blows with thee for our day of doom.
Beats the keeper
Gentle Master Fenton,
Thanks and good night to the Greeks' general.
That's on some shallow story of deep love:
Enter POLONIUS
My father loved Sir Rowland as his soul,
What many men desire! that 'many' may be meant
He should have braved the east an hour ago
Not as deserved.
Kate, you and I cannot be confined within the weak
sanctimony she accomplished; and, there residing the
Forbids to dwell upon: yet remember this,
get us some excellent music; for to-morrow night we
you any eyes? Do you know what a man is? Is not
With tears as sovereign as the blood of hearts,
That so his sickness, age and impotence
think so, which is another spur to my departure.
O just but severe law!
follow worse, till the worst of all follow him
Where were you bred?
Let this dissension first be tried by fight,
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
not pocket up wrong: art thou not ashamed?
Then I will kiss your lips, Kate.
There falling out at tennis:' or perchance,
Alas, you know I am no vaunter, I;
I'll find a fairer face not wash'd to-day.
Out o' tune, sir: ye lie. Art any more than a
And by that name must die: yet, heaven bear witness,
precious diamond that is, nor you the lady.
See better, Lear; and let me still remain
Go fetch fire.
'Deliver Helen, and all damage else--
Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.
not bid him cut it to pieces: ergo, thou liest.
Juno have mercy! how came it cloven?
Write up his title with usurping blood.
Good boatswain, have care. Where's the master?
You have not dared to break the holy seal
Your greatest want is, you want much of meat.
My lord, in Athens.
I'll have an Iris that shall find thee out.
I thank you, good friend Lucio.
And then came Pyramus.
the Jew and Antonio the merchant: we turned o'er
From his deep chest laughs out a loud applause;
To the court of King Simonides
Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE and THOMAS MOWBRAY
Traitor! how now!
do it for some piece of money, and go through with
Flourish. Enter ANTONY, CLEOPATRA, her Ladies, the Train, with Eunuchs fanning her
Reason; because they then less need one another.
No, that you shall not, till you take her hand
Upon your favours swims with fins of lead
And all the secrets of our camp I'll show,
Lest bleeding you do paint the white rose red
Is the day so young?
Hung their heads, and then lay by.
And craves your company for speedy counsel.
Cheerly to sea; the signs of war advance:
According to the fair play of the world,
Whose church-like humours fits not for a crown.
With a disdainful youth: anoint his eyes;
The adulterate Hastings, Rivers, Vaughan, Grey,
I would swim after.
The whole butt, man: my cellar is in a rock by the
Then, since the heavens have shaped my body so,
All men's!
her eyes: did her eyes run o'er too?
But, O, what damned minutes tells he o'er
Till I be brought to such a silly pass!
And thanks; and ever [         ] oft good turns
And was a common gamester to the camp.
What, is the fellow mad?
Well, we cannot greatly condemn our success: some
Not so, Sir Walter: we'll withdraw awhile.
When with his solemn tongue he did discourse
But, with an angry wafture of your hand,
I am not Samson, nor Sir Guy, nor Colbrand,
More womanly than he; hardly gave audience, or
Thou wast born of woman
The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul!
Exeunt SHALLOW, and SLENDER
Then, at my suit, look graciously on him;
believe your majesty takes no scorn to wear the leek
so am I; ha, ha! then there's more sympathy: you
That never meat sweet-savor'd in thy taste,
To say the truth, it is your policy
As ever offer'd foul play in the state.
And then to dinner. You are passing welcome,
Madam, the Lady Valeria is come to visit you.
Ere you can say 'she's honest:' but be 't known,
A dish that I do love to feed upon.
the will. Come, be a man. Drown thyself! drown
With Leonine, a murderer.
The bargain of your faith, I do beseech you,
Where I have took them up.
A charitable wish and full of love.
To RICHMOND
To find the other forth, and by adventuring both
Thy father slew my father; therefore, die.
And have no vigour in them.
piece of tender air; and when from a stately cedar
Fair lady,--
That there's no maculation in thy heart:
Away! the tribunes do attend you: arm yourself
Consorted with that harlot strumpet Shore,
Then is doomsday near: but your news is not true.
Is crack'd, and all the precious liquor spilt,
Rich in his father's honour, creeps apace,
Exit
Ba, pueritia, with a horn added.
Papist, howsome'er their hearts are severed in
Our sufferance vainly: now the time is flush,
This and my food are equals; there's no odds:
This is a brave night to cool a courtezan.
By swaggering could I never thrive,
Exit
O wonderful, wonderful, and most wonderful
Let them pronounce the steep Tarpeian death,
This union shall do more than battery can
some, of beguiling virgins with the broken seals of
Good.
I am accursed to rob in that thief's company: the
The innocent milk in its most innocent mouth,
The image of it gives me content already; and I
My speculative and officed instruments,
We are not the first
Uneven is the course, I like it not.
Nor came any of his bounties over me,
Rome shall record, and when I do forget
perdona-mi's, who stand so much on the new form,
Is the axe upon the block, sirrah?
My father, poorly led? World, world, O world!
his bidding. He wants nothing of a god but eternity
To raise a mutiny betwixt yourselves:
The gutter'd rocks and congregated sands--
And that's not suddenly to be perform'd,
that never prayed before, how I cried, how the
This is as strange a maze as e'er men trod
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
by Phoebus, he,'that wandering knight so fair.' And,
Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home?
If you will have Revenge from hell, you shall:
They shall have my horses; but I'll make them pay;
The law I bear no malice for my death;
instrument. Now, sweet queen.
Bi-fold authority! where reason can revolt
every tongue,
SCENE III. The British camp near Dover.
The sea-tost Pericles appears to speak.
Faith, none for me; except the north-east wind,
Health to you, valiant sir,
Is it not well? What should you need of more?
Shall sun that morrow see!
And on my side it is so well apparell'd,
The qualities of people. Come, my queen;
to the most wholesome physic of thy health-giving
In the preferment of the eldest sister.
The tempter or the tempted, who sins most?
I'll have some proof. Her name, that was as fresh
This is thy negligence: still thou mistakest,
This is a letter of your own device.
I will myself into the pulpit first,
Some to the common pulpits, and cry out
Away, my masters! trouble us no more;
Why then, your ambition makes it one; 'tis too
I'll have thy head for this thy traitor's speech.
To the fire i' the blood: be more abstemious,
Talbot, my life, my joy, again return'd!
Lie--
Save mine, which hath desired to see thee more;
Than his that shakes for age and feebleness:
O, that I knew thy heart; and knew the beast,
Whose father for his hoarding went to hell?
Prithee, nuncle, keep a schoolmaster that can teach
I do believe 'twas he.
Out of this wood do not desire to go:
To bid me trudge:
And I'll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty;
You know how apt our love was to accord
they dare not fight with me, because of the queen my
Conserved of maidens' hearts.
Very ill too.
And of the Cannibals that each other eat,
Pray their graces
Of fickle changelings and poor discontents,
Hangs one that gathers samphire, dreadful trade!
If not, I'll use the advantage of my power
A show of Eight Kings, the last with a glass in his hand; GHOST OF BANQUO following
DON
man and his son aboard the prince: told him I heard
They are, my lord.
prosperity! Affliction may one day smile again; and
Call Philostrate.
Should many people, under two commands,
Sir, believe this,
Master, knock the door hard.
Keep me in patience, and with ripen'd time
not hand a rope more; use your authority: if you
For Richard, in the view of many lords,
Torments will ope your lips.
Renege, affirm, and turn their halcyon beaks
Hang her! I do but say what she is: so delicate
Thy broken faith hath made a prey for worms.
Well are you welcome to the open air.
Here come the clusters.
They are gone but to meet the duke, villain: do not
Before you all, appeal unto the pope,
Cancel his bond of life, dear God, I prey,
Why should that name be sounded more than yours?
Why, what tumultuous clamour have we here?
Take thy lute, wench: my soul grows sad with troubles;
O, that I could but call these dead to life!
Lest I be laugh'd at when I tell them so.
No marvel, then, though he were ill affected:
In suit the place of's bed and win this ring
To weep at what I am glad of.
What noise is this? what traitors have we here?
If it please you: yet Count Claudio may hear; for
To his unmaster'd importunity.
Hath in him closed; whereby he does receive
This is the ring you sent to Silvia.
Both
Against that great magician, damn'd Glendower,
We two alone will sing like birds i' the cage:
I purpose not to wait on fortune till
wards and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst.
That dogs bark at me as I halt by them;
They please us well. Lord marquess, kneel down:
for he's a mad yeoman that sees his son a gentleman
Sir, I hope
Make servants of their betters.
That is deceiveable. But here the lady comes.
See how my sword weeps for the poor king's death!
For the in which doth control't.
wills. If the balance of our lives had not one
You must not think I am so simple but I know the
SCENE II. The same. The DUKE's palace.
Against such lewdsters and their lechery
could have seen 't, the woe had been universal.
Not I, my lord.
Come, come, Thersites, help to trim my tent:
ANTIPHOLUS
Sought to be king o'er her.
While summer-days do last. Ay me! poor maid,
Will e'en but kiss Octavia, and we'll follow.
full of vent. Peace is a very apoplexy, lethargy;
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
Thou, eunuch Mardian!
than there is between red wine and rhenish. But
I' the filthy-mantled pool beyond your cell,
That beggars mounted run their horse to death.
a farmer's dog bark at a beggar?
SCENE I. Coventry.
All, sirrah, all:
Whiles you are willing it shall come to note,
man i' the world.
We would not understand what was most fit;
A loyal, just and upright gentleman:
A joyful mother of two goodly sons;
In this which he accounts so clearly won:
That's soon perform'd, because I am a subject.
I am thus early come to know what service
I would they were in Afric both together;
Who shall reward you better for my life
The fever whereof all our power is sick.
Offence of mighty note; but to himself
His only child.
I have not yet made known to Mariana
Stabs him
We would have all such offenders so cut off: and we
But now in arms you strengthen it with yours:
Into some covert: take your sweetheart's hat
Give me the letter; I will look on it.
That never knew what truth meant: I now seal it;
'as true as I live,' and 'as God shall mend me,' and
Upon his death, unto the gentleman
And gentle, kind, effeminate remorse,
Had been alive this hour,
I must employ you in some business
Unto the daughter of a worthless king,
Rare words! brave world! Hostess, my breakfast, come!
We cannot cross the cause why we were born;
Re-enter Attendants with AARON
So shouldst thou either turn my flying soul,
[Aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If you
You were disguised.
Because your lordship was proclaimed traitor.
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
The poor advanced makes friends of enemies.
As these poor pickaxes can dig; and when
SCENE V. Gloucester's castle.
Enter BERTRAM, LAFEU, and PAROLLES
'Tis good for men to love their present pains
Thou hast power to choose, and they none to forsake.
Ensues his piteous and unpitied end:
O, that's the case of the shepherd's son: hang him,
It seems then that the tidings of this broil
Between you I shall have a holy head.
More like a god than you. Will you deliver
And thou shalt have to pay for it of us.
Not able to produce more accusation
Enter COSTARD
Fare you well, boy: you know my mind. I will leave
Who knew of Your intent and coming hither?
Our thunder from the south
In marriage, with a large and sumptuous dowry.
names as they pass by; but mark Troilus above the rest.
Why?
sword, and then we will chop him in the malmsey-butt
The bruit is, Hector's slain, and by Achilles.
Exeunt
Exit
Or gentleman, that is not freely merry,
Ride, ride, Messala, ride, and give these bills
I have spoke already, and it is provided;
So shall Biron take me for Rosaline.
As that proud dame, the lord protector's wife.
'Tis good; though music oft hath such a charm
To villany and vengeance consecrate,
Lends the tongue vows: these blazes, daughter,
Ay, nurse; what of that? both with an R.
My love with words and errors still she feeds;
Enter DULL, COSTARD, and JAQUENETTA
Will you walk in to see their gossiping?
Away, you rogue!
Of Caesar's death.
I know not, lady.
Make me not offended
As true as steel, as plantage to the moon,
I have heard a sonnet begin so to one's mistress.
I will, my lord.
When they are bound to serve, love and obey.
And die with grieving.
That we, the sons and children of this isle,
'An Angelo for Claudio, death for death!'
Clear up, fair queen, that cloudy countenance:
Enter a Servant
As great'st does least.
But little: I am arm'd and well prepared.
Divides one thing entire to many objects;
Who went with him to search Bassanio's ship.
Hold unbewail'd their way. Welcome to Rome;
What think'st thou? is it not an easy matter
What I have done being young, or what would do
And died so?
Herself poised with herself in either eye:
If wishes would prevail with me,
And water once a day her chamber round
Let's be calm.
O worthiness of nature! breed of greatness!
Why, that's well said. What colour is my gown of?
Sir, in Argier.
For kissing of their feet; yet always bending
Lending your kind commiseration.
Ready, my lord.
That strumpet Fortune, that usurping John!
he be perjured, see you now, his reputation is as
Exit
grains of wheat hid in two bushels of chaff: you
And venomous to thine eyes. My sometime general,
He puts on sackcloth, and to sea. He bears
Fight, gentlemen of England! fight, bold yoemen!
Enter three or four Lords
Richard, be Duke of Gloucester. Now to London,
daughter with clipping her; now he thanks the old
Let's follow him, and pervert the present wrath
I'll be damned for never a king's son in
Yes, master, clear as day, I thank God and
And, gallant Warwick, do but answer this:
Seen how his son's son should destroy his sons,
Exit FENTON
Wert thou an oracle to tell me so,
Sir, I am a true labourer: I earn that I eat, get
Thou pitied'st Rutland; I will pity thee.
He forfeits his own blood that spills another.
Why, how now, daughter Katharina! in your dumps?
Upon some book I love I'll pray for thee.
I hear some noise. Lady, come from that nest
Lifts up the array and discovers POLONIUS
Bull Jove, sir, had an amiable low;
Like our strange garments, cleave not to their mould
You have been nobly borne. From me awhile.
By favours several which they did bestow.
This from a dying man receive as certain:
See, where he comes: so please you, step aside;
Upon the king! let us our lives, our souls,
Do not believe it. Fewness and truth, 'tis thus:
Enter, as to the Parliament, HENRY BOLINGBROKE,  DUKE OF AUMERLE, NORTHUMBERLAND, HENRY PERCY, LORD  FITZWATER, DUKE OF SURREY, the BISHOP OF CARLISLE,  the Abbot Of Westminster, and another Lord, Herald, Officers, and BAGOT
That thou hadst call'd me all these bitter names.
I love thee.
Never did thought of mine levy offence;
And, for my heart disdained that my tongue
You do me mischief. Fie, Demetrius!
Could you not take some occasion without giving?
I heard myself proclaim'd;
At what was all this laughing?
To put my father in impatient thoughts
ACT V
she will plod. There must be conclusions. Well, I
Is't come to this? Well, well.
strain were in the same distress.
With the first glance that ever--pardon me--
These worms for loving, that art most in love?
That which I show, heaven knows, is merely love,
You go not till I set you up a glass
And the true blood which peepeth fairly through't,
persuasion; and I doubt not you sustain what you're
For to seek my mother!
And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
The way to dusty death. Out, out, brief candle!
Then, by the lawful power that I have,
But by my ruin.
say, you cannot pass. Therefore, go back.
And that the spoil got on the Antiates
We'll have this song out anon by ourselves: my
Of these Italian weeds and suit myself
Content.
Madam, if't please the queen to send the babe,
What's he that follows there, that would not dance?
And why he left your court, the gods themselves,
Go, good partner, go, get you to Francis Seacole;
One that you love.
Even with the vail and darking of the sun,
Or bobtail tike or trundle-tail,
ANTIPHOLUS
We have heard your miseries as far as Tyre,
Nay, that would be as great a soil in the new gloss
Nay, in the body of this fleshly land,
For out o' doors he went without their helps,
Is that the worst this letter doth contain?
for my life.
of Paris my lord, who's there in person; with him,
That calls upon us, by the grace of Grace,
Quite from the flight of all thy ancestors.
Doth any one accuse York for a traitor?
The deer was, as you know, sanguis, in blood; ripe
Tradition, form and ceremonious duty,
All three of them are desperate: their great guilt,
And, ere our coming, see thou shake the bags
And this her easy-held imprisonment
Good queen!
I have his horse to take up the quarrel:
my apron: and, Will, thou shalt have my hammer:
With lesser weight but not with lesser woe,
O, grief hath changed me since you saw me last,
Our knocking has awaked him; here he comes.
You shall know many dare accuse you boldly,
Let us wag, then.
He rather means to lodge you in the field,
Thou seest what's past, go fear thy king withal.
Or more than common fear of Clifford's rigour,
There take an inventory of all I have,
Thy reason, man?
So do you too, where you perceive them thick.
And so far blameless proves my enterprise,
God dig-you-den all! Pray you, which is the head lady?
Here's gold. Go, suck the subtle blood o' the grape,
If your diligence be not speedy, I shall be there afore you.
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
If we know him to be a thief, shall we not lay
men, and remain a beast with the beasts?
We make ourselves fools, to disport ourselves;
I know that, fool.
And hang it round with all my wanton pictures:
And will, I fear, revolt on Hereford's side.
Then would I have his Harry, and he mine.
Enter RICHARD
Nothing but fair is that which you inherit.
With those that have but little: this must be patch'd
Of ashy semblance, meagre, pale and bloodless,
Or with our sighs we'll breathe the welkin dim,
All continent impediments would o'erbear
I think he bought his doublet in Italy, his round
And still is friend to him and Margaret:
I'll call them back again to comfort me:
Save you your labour. He that lies slain
Hang me by the neck, if horns that year miscarry.
That faultless may condemn a nobleman!
For in the book of Numbers is it writ,
Give her the right you should have given her cousin,
We kept together in our chivalry!'
DON
Was ever conduct of: some oracle
immaterial skein of sleave-silk, thou green sarcenet
My charge was but to fetch you from the mart
That could have better sew'd than Philomel.
The king is a good king: but it must be as it may;
That staggers thus my person. Exton, thy fierce hand
Your mariners are muleters, reapers, people
They burn him with their tapers
a beast. You were also, Jupiter, a swan for the love
My love and her desert; that canst not dream,
Villain, what hast thou done?
They swore that you were almost sick for me.
That my master, being scribe, to himself should write
Death lies on her like an untimely frost
Many a duteous and knee-crooking knave,
your sword.
daughter, she is, by this, Doctor Caius' wife.
However God or fortune cast my lot,
Be brief, lest that be process of thy kindness
And make him, naked, foil a man at arms.
Abate thy rage, abate thy manly rage,
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul;
Sir?
May these add to the number that may scald thee!
Come, where be these gallants? who's at home?
What thou wilt,
Exeunt
Presenteth them unto the gazing moon
had any friend would be a man for my sake! But
Than to rejoice the former queen is well?
To cross my obsequies and true love's rite?
Since the more fair and crystal is the sky,
Look, where thy love comes; yonder is thy dear.
These are his substance, sinews, arms and strength,
We could control them. If you will come to me,--
Think what thou wilt, I am thy lover's grace;
Which shows like grief itself, but is not so;
By the queen's dram she swallow'd.
Mistress Anne, and I would not break with her for
mouth, and was speechless.
Shall strike his father's crown into the hazard.
If I would yield him my virginity,
Peace, I have done. God mark thee to his grace!
I, that did never weep, now melt with woe
What says my sweet queen, my very very sweet queen?
And, as my fortune ripens with thy love,
Men judge by the complexion of the sky
it.
but, as you say, sir, let your bounty take a nap, I
Hear him but reason in divinity,
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
A husband's office? shall, Antipholus.
And hang a calf's-skin on those recreant limbs.
Have the gods envy?
That
And his own courses will denote him so
Lie in a pitch'd field.
Of his true state.
How now for mitigation of this bill
Good even to my ghostly confessor.
This note doth tell me of ten thousand French
the nose, as if you snuffed up love by smelling
You are welcome: take your place.
The circumstance consider'd, good my lord,
Where manners ne'er were preach'd! out of my sight!
You are assembled: and my speech entreats
And about evening come yourself alone
Being an ordinary inundation;
You must not enter.
Nor, by my will, assubjugate his merit,
Depart untouch'd.
Well be with you, gentlemen!
Thus far; and so farewell.
ACT IV
Patch'd with foul moles and eye-offending marks,
He hath whipp'd with rods; dares me to personal combat,
Bound by my charity and my blest order,
Here feel we but the penalty of Adam,
Yourself and your accusers; and to have heard you,
The proclamation!
in reputation. Reputation is an idle and most false
Hell only danceth at so harsh a chime.
And durst commend a secret to your ear
With hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
Thy balm wash'd off wherewith thou wast anointed:
My daughter's mother thinks it with her soul.
And, as the world were now but to begin,
When wheat is green, when hawthorn buds appear.
And for your grace; and you, my noble lords.
We should hold day with the Antipodes,
To courtship and such fair ostents of love
Knowing that tender youth is soon suggested,
Say his long trouble now is passing
To dim his glory and to stain the track
To gentle exercise and proof of arms.
O woman, if it were not for one trifling respect, I
Come, woo me, woo me, for now I am in a holiday
write, pen; for I am for whole volumes in folio.
Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no.
Exit
Even ripe for marriage-rite; this maid
Ha, ha! what sayest thou?
To load thy merit richly. Call my women:
The rest is labour, which is not used for you:
this is called the Quip Modest. If again 'it was
Enforced from the old Assyrian slings:
But wilt thou faithfully?
That I should yet absent me from your bed:
Yet throw such changes of vexation on't,
But fear not thou, until thy foot be snared,
I did not think he had been acquainted with her.
how you take it!
Is he so much? Do you not think he thinks himself a
And have prepared great store of wedding cheer;
You do yourself mighty wrong, Master Ford.
sequent to your whipping: you would answer very well
Out, strumpet! weep'st thou for him to my face?
threshold till my lord return from the wars.
If I had thought the sight of my poor image
Of bloody strokes and mortal-staring war.
But little thinks we shall be of her council:
Madam, I have a touch of your condition,
The sight whereof I think you had from me,
You stand within his danger, do you not?
funeral: well, here's my comfort.
A baseness to write fair and labour'd much
Without the stamp of merit? Let none presume
A lousy knave, to have his gibes and his mockeries!
Ah, my sour husband, my hard-hearted lord,
Why have I patience to endure all this?
He is already named, and gone to Scone
The sense of reckoning, if the opposed numbers
Enter LOVELL
A thousand irreligious cursed hours,
If in his death the gods have us befriended,
Thus with imagined wing our swift scene flies
Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
This I must do, or know not what to do:
Within the arras: when I strike my foot
Nothing but this; your true love for my master.
But on this day let seamen fear no wreck;
Exit ESCALUS
As the unsullied lily, I protest,
Good leave, good Philip.
And thou a kingdom; all of you allegiance:
Until his army be dismiss'd from him.
Then were it certain you were not so bad
We must talk in secret:--nurse, come back again;
I know 'tis he. We are held as outlaws: hence!
Or needs not us. If Caesar please, our master
Not enough barbarous, had not o'erboard thrown me
And, for I know your reverend ages love
I would my tongue could rot them off!
Unto their issue.
That I can find should merit any hate.
Thou common friend, that's without faith or love,
particular additions; he is as valiant as the lion,
Free, madam! no; I made no such report:
Alarum. Exeunt
Your uncle Worcester's horse came but today;
After young Arthur, claim this land for mine;
noble and true-hearted Kent banished! his
Tear him to pieces; he's a conspirator.
Made love to Nedar's daughter, Helena,
Exeunt PRINCESS, ROSALINE, KATHARINE, and MARIA
Tell him, my mourning weeds are laid aside,
Exit
What now, my son! have I not ever said
What, Patch-breech, I say!
To his own use he keeps; and sends me word,
speaks with the tongue of an enemy be a good
That in submission will return to us:
a muffler and a kerchief, and so escape.
I'll now taste of thy drug.
From these sad thoughts, that work too much upon him:
There is no more such masters: I may wander
From Richard's night to Bolingbroke's fair day.
Awhile to work, and after holiday.
The lining of his coffers shall make coats
The advancement of your children, gentle lady.
You gentle Romans,--
tameness, civility and patience, to this his
He cannot be heard of. Out of doubt he is
That Rome is but a wilderness of tigers?
It must be by his death: and for my part,
into which they vanished. Whiles I stood rapt in
I do dine to-day at the father's of a certain pupil
Hath nature that in time will venom breed,
What shall I swear by?
The dark and vicious place where thee he got
But for our hearts, he knows no more of mine,
What, you notorious villain, didst thou never see
When was this?
The people mutinous; and it is rumour'd,
Thou know'st, was banish'd: for one thing she did
That thou hast power to shake my manhood thus;
And yet are steep'd in favours: so am I,
mummers; set up the bloody flag against all
When he doth bid good morrow with such a spirit.
As, nimble jugglers that deceive the eye,
O, I believe with him,
And so, good Capulet,--which name I tender
Sir, there is a proclamation that you are vanished.
I will never trust a man again for keeping his sword
Do not forget: this visitation
him that made the tailor, not be fit too? the
In peace, and part this body and my soul
lives; that I mean to make bold withal, and as you
Is not this just? for I shall sutler be
Alas, sir, are you here? things that love night
What, ho!
So near the cradle of the fairy queen?
Enter GOWER
I have spoke it, and I did it.
But though I am a daughter to his blood,
I do not understand.
Thou art the first knave that e'er madest a duke.
Thy valiantness was mine, thou suck'dst it from me,
With one of an ingraft infirmity:
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
Your pleasure be fulfill'd!
Bajazet's mule, if you prattle me into these perils.
Prithee, be silent, boy; I profit not by thy talk:
With your crown'd brother and these your contracted
Out, fool! I forgive thee for a witch.
Why, foolish Lucius, dost thou not perceive
To save this brother's life?
As like almost to Claudio as himself.
To sit here at this present, and behold
As it is here set down.
Griefs of mine own lie heavy in my breast,
Thy pupil long? Hast thou not learn'd me how
I prithee, call him back.
And see our moonlight revels, go with us;
See if thou canst outface me with thy looks:
This reprobate till he were well inclined;
what 'cerns it you if I wear pearl and gold? I
A priestly farewell to her: suddenly, woman.
Do, if it will not stand.
Into the hands of one that loves you not;
Never to hold it up again! the spirits
As daylight doth a lamp; her eyes in heaven
Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice six
uses to seal: 'tis my lady. To whom should this be?
So, traitor! 'When she comes!' When is she thence?
And flat meads thatch'd with stover, them to keep;
slighted me into the river with as little remorse as
He has not with him.
Unheard; what then?
By'r lady, thirty years.
Your majesty came not like yourself: you appeared to
leisure have discredited to him, and now is he
Tell me, sirrah, what's my name?
blood, and hot blood begets hot thoughts, and hot
Who, when he knows thou art the empress' babe,
What does the tyrant?
The word, 'Lux tua vita mihi.'
COUNTESS
Like a mad lad,
Wilt thou make a trust a transgression? The
O God!--O nurse, how shall this be prevented?
could come to such honour!
That takes the reason prisoner?
And stolen my love's heart from him?
What peremptory eagle-sighted eye
Shut up in prison, kept without my food,
God bless thee, lady!
well-a-day, we could scarce help ourselves.
Then, lest he may, prevent. And, since the quarrel
Aside
I confess the cape.
He; I know him.
Whispers CHARMIAN
That thou so oft have boasted to retain?
of visitors.
And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets.
The fishermen, that walk upon the beach,
If I think so, I think the same of you.
So many journeys may the sun and moon
This to Apollo; this to the god of war;
Was that mine?
In your dear highness' love.
Where heaven He knows how we shall answer him;
ACT I
Despite the bear-ward that protects the bear.
Take it, brave York. Now, soldiers, march away:
It stands as an edict in destiny:
shall find us in our salt-water girdle: if you
First pay me for the nursing of thy sons;
If you would grant the time.
Rates and revenges.
Come hither, come hither, come hither:
I now go toward him; therefore follow me
Go to the bay and disembark my coffers:
I further know not.
That Mowbray hath received eight thousand nobles
From thousand dangers; bid him bury it
troubles me, and the foolish fortune of this girl;
For the supply and profit of our hope,
'hic jacet.'
Down, down to hell; and say I sent thee thither:
There to meet with Macbeth.
We understand it, and thank heaven for you.
The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees
The Attendants part them, and they come out of the grave
Whose being I do fear: and, under him,
Keep it, I cannot eat it.
Shall be to me even as the dew to fire,
Did whisper often very secretly.
I warrant you, with pure love and troubled brain, he
forget that thou art Jove, the king of gods and,
Should he 'scape Hector fair: if he were foil'd,
Let me be clear of thee.
And he's as like to do't as any man I can imagine.
Exeunt Gentlemen
Business, my lord! I think most understand
He did oppose his foe:
Claudio, whom here you have warrant to execute, is
bibble babble.
But if you hunt these bear-whelps, then beware:
So thou wilt let me live, and feel no pain.
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
Shall break the locks
He answer'd thus: 'Young Talbot was not born
That brought thee to this world.
Enter CLOTEN and Lords
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
See, what a grace was seated on this brow;
Exeunt
Construe my speeches better, if you may.
But learn my lessons as I please myself.
Hadst thou Narcissus in thy face, to me
Ay, for these slips have made him noted long:
That yon green boy shall have no sun to ripe
I'll change my black gown for a faithful friend.
Who freely give to every one that comes
This is not well, my lord, this is not well.
Enter Ambassadors of France
Swell with the touches of those flower-soft hands,
Enter CORIOLANUS, marching with drum and colours; commoners being with him
she, that this house, if it be not a bawd's house,
Here! what should he do here?
I do.
Thy purpose marriage, send me word to-morrow,
I suffer for the truth, sir; for true it is, I was
art full of error; I am sound.
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth,
Your safety manifested.
Shall we send that foolish carrion, Mistress
Whereof their mother daintily hath fed,
Humphrey of Gloucester? If thou canst accuse,
Alas, the tender boy, in passion moved,
Concern me the reporting.
And made an evening at the noontide prick.
Great Mars, I put myself into thy file:
How, how! another?
tongue shakes out his master's undoing: to say
I thank you: keep the door. O thou vile king,
and the parent; death, dearth, dissolutions of
You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny point
And that my fortune rubs against the bias.
Whose virtue and obedience doth this instant
Or else was wrangling Somerset in the error?
There Minotaurs and ugly treasons lurk.
I'll tell tree, Hubert, half my power this night,
of our two cousins coming into London.
A space whose every cubit
If I unwittingly, or in my rage,
rightly but one who shall rightly love. But what
About his neck, Bohemia: who, if I
I am too young; I pray you, pardon me.'
Thou hast not half that power to do me harm
Then take my soul, my body, soul and all,
Which not to anger bent, is music and sweet fire.
Excellent well.
he? How looked he? Wherein went he? What makes
And make pursuit where he did mean no chase.
For it doth physic love: of his content,
And if Jove stray, who dares say Jove doth ill?
like him as she is.
Re-enter LEONINE
I pray you, sir, let him go while the humour lasts.
toasts-and-butter, with hearts in their bellies no
[To IAGO]  O Spartan dog,
That I might so have rated my expense,
As Neptune's park, ribbed and paled in
So do you, good master doctor.
You breathe these dead news in as dead an ear.
If we no more meet till we meet in heaven,
your gown;
I'll plead for you myself, but you shall have
Cry fie upon my grave!
I went to seek him: in the street I met him
Would he were wasted, marrow, bones and all,
Now Hal, to the news at court: for the robbery,
Proclaim my brother Edmund Mortimer
This is the very painting of your fear:
But if it were, doubt not her care should be
In change of him: let him be sent, great princes,
Your purse is not hot enough to purchase your spice.
Was't so?
Why, I, in this weak piping time of peace,
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
To entertain these fair well-spoken days,
O, stand up blest!
These may be counterfeits: let's think't unsafe
than she is requested: this broken joint between
But with her most vile principal, that she's
The misplaced John should entertain an hour,
Belike you thought our love would last too long,
To mangle me with that word 'banished'?
That for the beauty thinks it excellent.
sword on thy side, and yet thou rannest away: what
nated, or called, Don Adriano de Armado.
Saw her abed, and in the morning early
The citizens are up, and Tybalt slain.
The lustful Edward's title buried--
DON
We do, my lord.
Hath given me some worthy cause to wish
With flowers of winter.
Into a thousand oaths; and all those oaths
Before he should thus stoop to the herd, but that
Who cannot be new built, nor has no friends,
Very easily possible: he wears his faith but as
And suffer not dishonour to approach
Stand forth, Dame Eleanor Cobham, Gloucester's wife:
How now, you whoreson peasant!
And he that stands upon a slippery place
I have seen and heard of; for your voices have
Is hush'd within the hollow mine of earth,
Some devils ask but the parings of one's nail,
have, I am one that, telling true under him, must
Give me some music. Now, good morrow, friends.
to be proud of thy bondage. I have a desire to hold
enforced, for which he suffered death.
The sense of death is most in apprehension;
Quit presently the chapel, or resolve you
Home to your cottages, forsake this groom:
I would it were,
The help of one stands me in little stead.
To keep base life afoot. Return with her?
I charge thee, Satan, housed within this man,
Who could be out, being before his beloved mistress?
Whensoever he's convented. First, for this woman.
Into what pitch he please.
No, Pandarus: I stalk about her door,
him when Hector has knocked out his brains, I know
him to execution; for discipline ought to be used.
him, his umbrage, nothing more.
To put you to't. But come; our dance, I pray:
What man is that?
My love should kindle to inflamed respect.
Which I did make him swear to keep for ever.
Thou, nor thy nobles, to the crown of England.
Strengthen'd by interchangement of your rings;
Nay, come, agree whose hand shall go along,
But I'll be hanged, sir, if he wear your livery:
musing: but for you--well, go to.
That we were all, as some would seem to be,
for missing your meetings and appointments.
That I have utter'd: bring me to the test,
Madam, the guests are come, supper served up, you
How poor Andromache shrills her dolours forth!
Within this three mile may you see it coming;
To sit about the coronation.
Look, here he comes,
Why, but you are now well enough: how came you thus
Resign thy chair, and where I stand kneel thou,
Which now shows all the beauty of the sun,
O my Parolles, they have married me!
accent was a plain knave; which for my part
And give it Timon, why, the dog coins gold.
Enough of this; I pray thee, hold thy peace.
Prithee, tarry:
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
Ours is the fall, I fear; our foes the snare.
SCENE IV. Belmont. A room in PORTIA'S house.
We grieve at chances here. Away!
Recount, I do beseech thee: come, sit by me.
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
he would have deserved it: sixpence a day in
Come down, and welcome me to this world's light;
Yea, or so many, sith that both charge and danger
'My mistress, sir' quoth I; 'Hang up thy mistress!
Sans sans, I pray you.
Shall dye your white rose in a bloody red.
Who gives any thing to poor Tom? whom the foul
Meantime let wonder seem familiar,
The grandchild to her blood. But, out, affection!
I do not know if it be it or no.
Now my dear lady, hath mine enemies
Exit MISTRESS FORD
If you are bound to us or no. What say you?
And new-create this fault?
Sound Trumpets. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and SOMERSET, on the terrace
Assist me, Tranio, for I know thou wilt.
SCENE III. An ante-chamber of the QUEEN'S apartments.
name the several colours we do wear. Sight may
And by our holy Sabbath have I sworn
As, heaven it knows, I would not have him speed.
Do 't in your parents' eyes! bankrupts, hold fast;
The greatest miracle that e'er ye wrought:
and moves with its own organs: it lives by that
I took you for that cunning whore of Venice
A fearful eye thou hast: where is that blood
Withdraw thee, wretched Margaret: who comes here?
Which you before so urged, lies in his answer.
We were elected theirs, Marcius is worthy
Good morrow, Ned.
Two of the dangerous consorted traitors
make an end of my dinner; there's pippins and cheese to come.
'Sblood, you starveling, you elf-skin, you dried
What says she to my birth?
And with what zeal! for, now he has crack'd the league
benches after noon, that thou hast forgotten to
Stoop low within those bounds we have o'erlook'd
But, look, amazement on thy mother sits:
Proceed, proceed	I'll give her.
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o'
Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands;
It is.
Exeunt DIOMEDES and CALCHAS
Let one attend him with a silver basin
draws the horse? Whoop, Jug! I love thee.
Of his demerits rob Cominius.
terror in the youth: he will find it comes from a
And must we be divided? must we part?
I follow, mine host, I follow. Good even and
Where is the thousand marks thou hadst of me?
Without delay; and the pretence for this
Nothing in France, until he has no wife!
taunt of one that makes fritters of English? This
To have us make denial.
but fortune. Coragio, bully-monster, coragio!
All these and more we hazard by thy stay;
Down on thy knees, thank the holy gods as loud
Not for that neither: here's the pang that pinches:
Thy modesty can beg.
do the office of a warming-pan. Faith, he's very ill.
lamentable divorce under her colours are wonderfully
Singing
Your liberties and the charters that you bear
Sharp physic is the last: but, O you powers
Fresh expectation troubled not the land
And sinks most lamentably. Had our general
Your multiplying spawn how can he flatter--
But be thou arm'd for some unhappy words.
thank you always with my heart, la! with my heart.
Prepare her ears to hear a wooer's tale
I must needs appear.
And with him there lie mudded.
If you first sinn'd with us and that with us
Enter MACBETH, and a Servant with a torch
See, noble Charles, the beacon of our friend;
You seem'd of late to make the law a tyrant;
Or dive into the bottom of the deep,
Good faith, I am no wiser than a daw.
Had I thy youth and cause, I would not stay.
You have said, sir. To see this age! A sentence is
Hath stopp'd the passage where thy words should enter.
He would not, but by gift of my chaste body
suppers and sleeping-hours excepted: it is the
'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
nutmegs, seven; a race or two of ginger, but that I
officious; for I am proof against that title and
O'er borne i' the former wave: ten, chased by one,
Enter LADY MACBETH
That rail'd against our person: we consider
Drives back our troops and conquers as she lists:
I twice five hundred and their friends to piece 'em.
To be opposed against the warring winds?
Enter CARDINAL WOLSEY and CARDINAL CAMPEIUS
Who can impress the forest, bid the tree
he would meet her, as he was appointed, next morning
And presently prefer his suit to Caesar.
How every thing is chanced.
When he sees me go back one foot or fly.
If thou deny, their blood upon thy head;
Dear Princess, were not his requests so far
Thus have we swept suspicion from our seat
Thou frantic woman, what dost thou make here?
My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Shall be extinct with age and endless night;
Go see my lord aboard: for this time leave me.
Re-enter GLOUCESTER and BUCKINGHAM
O Jesu, he doth it as like one of these harlotry
You suddenly arose, and walk'd about,
For those that were, it is not square to take
tender-bodied and the only son of my womb, when
The unseen good old man.
Why, this is to have a name in great men's
This toil of ours should be a work of thine;
That mercy which fierce fire and iron extends,
I mean, thy general.
And more thirsts after.
Clarence hath not another day to live:
No more, good York; sweet Somerset, be still:
Ha, ha! he wears cruel garters. Horses are tied
And set me on the proof. So the gods bless me,
with any detection in my hand, my desires had
Vexations of it! Had I been thief-stol'n,
What, wilt thou not? then, Clarence, do it thou.
Master, has my fellow Tranio stolen your clothes? Or
Or shall we on without a apology?
None, man; all idle: whores and knaves.
The sad companion, dull-eyed melancholy,
Let's leave the hermit pity with our mothers,
And thou usurp'st my father's right and mine.
master in the way of marriage.
We should have else desired your good advice,
Have I once lived to see two honest men?
Jack Cade hath gotten London bridge:
To FERDINAND
Fear not; 'tis empty of all things but grief;
Nay, mark how Lewis stamps, as he were nettled:
Retires
With all my heart.
if I should take from another's pocket to put into
Be happy that my arms are out of use:
Call Buckingham, and bid him arm himself.
detects him: 'tis a blushing shamefast spirit that
And therefore little shall I grace my cause
And when the lion fawns upon the lamb,
Whilst I at home starve for a merry look.
Poor queen! so that thy state might be no worse,
Why, beg, then.
To beautify thy triumphs and return,
Nothing but my fortune.
And these he masters now: now he weighs time
Redeeming time when men think least I will.
To fear the foe, since fear oppresseth strength,
Of mere compassion and of lenity,
The greater scorns the lesser: not nature,
Mine eye hath well examined his parts
Here comes another of the tribe: a third cannot be
Here, sir.
Must be of such unnatural degree,
To help King Edward in his time of storm,
rumination wraps me m a most humorous sadness.
understand what you mean by bidding me taste my legs.
My stern effects: then what I have to do
To God of heaven, King Richard and to me;
Together with your ring; and not the wronger
In this hard rock, whiles you do keep from me
mutiny; whose qualification shall come into no true
In her forehead; armed and reverted, making war
Rome, especially his mother, may prevail with him.
Is he not jealous?
For too much loving you.
duke had crotchets in him. He would be drunk too;
With the least cause these his new honours, which
But, sith I am enter'd in this cause so far,
Cousins, indeed; and by their uncle cozen'd
Three times bestrid him; thrice I led him off,
Or in the beached margent of the sea,
Enter Priest,  and c. in procession; the Corpse of  OPHELIA, LAERTES and Mourners following; KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, their trains,  and c
you may believe: censure me in your wisdom, and
Much work for tears in many an English mother,
In borrow'd robes?
The day is ours, the bloody dog is dead.
More than mine own; that am, have, and will be--
And I could sing, would weeping do me good,
And win them too: therefore let us devise
She did, indeed.
If this fellow be wise, he'll never call ye Jack
Put on for villany; not born where't grows,
MARK ANTONY dies
[To RICHMOND]
Commits itself to yours to be directed,
Signior Antipholus, I wonder much
Our written purposes before us sent;
And what said the gallant?
O world, thou wast the forest to this hart;
I mean to take possession of my right.
Hector trembles.
And left me bare to weather.
Yet, by mine honour, I will deal in this
These oaths and laws will prove an idle scorn.
And, from that full meridian of my glory,
A long time out of play, may bring his plainsong
Agreed.
That an eel is quick.
Whither wilt thou have me?
His coward lips did from their colour fly,
Whose better issue in the war, from Italy,
Even now the frozen bosom of the north,
'Tis government that makes them seem divine;
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
Give my sweet Nan this ring: there's for thy pains.
Lest that it make me so unsound a man
What reverence he did throw away on slaves,
ANTIPHOLUS
barbarism, and policy grows into an ill opinion.
SCENE IV. A street.
Why, no, I say, distrustful recreants!
Often resort unto this gentlewoman?
Because you know, my lord, my mother lives.
Long have I been forlorn, and all for thee:
Thy burning car never had scorch'd the earth!
The lag end of their lewdness and be laugh'd at.
Will quicken, and accuse thee: I am your host:
SCENE V. Britain. A room in Cymbeline's palace.
And make me put into contempt the suits
And tarry with him till I turn again.
What?
As if they saw some wondrous monument,
changes when they are wives. I will be more jealous
The purchase made, the fruits are to ensue;
Is it upon record, or else reported
politician.
I rather will subject me to the malice
Music
My services which I have done the signiory
When I shall turn the business of my soul
Whence, driven before the winds, he is arrived
Look you, sir, such a one I was this present: is't
To your most gracious hands, that are the substance
Like a drowned man, a fool and a mad man: one
Sail seas in cockles, have an wish but for't;
mistress of him: sanctifies himself with's hand and
His nature is too noble for the world:
By and by, I come:--
The jealous o'erworn widow and herself,
Yea, marry, let them come before me. What is your
Upon these words I came and cheer'd him up:
Ay, if the devil tempt thee to do good.
And never look upon thy face again.
For kissing, lady, not for such contempt.
That's Christian care enough: for living murmurers
Rien puis? L'air et la feu.
To do our country loss; and if to live,
Turn up on your right hand at the next turning, but,
And cowardly nobles, gave way unto your clusters,
SCENE IV. Plains between Troy and the Grecian camp.
You equal potents, fiery kindled spirits!
the fool should be as oft with your master as with
you, who is his companion? Is there no young
Exeunt all but MENAS and ENOBARBUS
speciously one of them; Mistress Ford, good heart,
By Jupiter! forgot.
Have you thought on
Upon advantage.
SCENE I. Troy. Before Priam's palace.
Whose dust is both alike. I am very sick.
Enter a Messenger, hastily
And having that, do choke their service up
Jeweller:	I have a jewel here--
What's to come is still unsure:
It is too late: the life of all his blood
A thousand times good night!
I will stir up in England some black storm
Where, like a sweet melodious bird, it sung
By so receiving a dishonour'd life
Trust to thy single virtue; for thy soldiers,
What, man! 'tis not so much, 'tis not so much:
Say again, where didst thou leave these varlets?
My thoughts are whirled like a potter's wheel;
sins of my mother should be visited upon me.
squarer now that will make a voyage with him to the devil?
Be friends, you English fools, be friends: we have
What my tongue dares not, that my heart shall say.
For, heaven to earth, some of us never shall
In the poison'd entrails throw.
Was round encompassed and set upon.
It is not seen enough, you should wear it in your
Dear lady, welcome home.
Upon a friend of mine, who, in hot blood,
A picture, sir. When comes your book forth?
fingering, so; we'll try with tongue too: if none
No, Mortimer is not there.
Enter LORD BERKELEY
See! Antony, that revels long o' nights,
Enter BORACHIO
No; thou shalt.
The labour of each knight in his device.
To kill us here in Hampton: to the which
O fair return of banish'd majesty!
I give this heavy weight from off my head
Ay, and old York, and yet not satisfied.
Here in your city; I now came from him:
embraces his son-in-law; then again worries he his
Prove but our marriage lawful, by my life
How now, my sweet Bianca! how now! how now!
the Moor is defective in: now, for want of these
And stay here in your court for three years' space.
Shall pierce a jot. There's gold to pay soldiers:
Here stooping to your clemency,
Who is, if every owner were well placed,
Your franchises, whereon you stood, confined
Poor I am stale, a garment out of fashion;
A special party, have, by common voice,
No sweet aspersion shall the heavens let fall
Anon, anon! I pray you, remember the porter.
Weigh but the crime with this.
To emblaze the honour that thy master got.
Great thing of us forgot!
broken coxcomb. When you take occasions to see leeks
Exeunt
peat the door for Master Page.
May not be punish'd with my thwarting stars,
With him his bondman, all as mad as he--
The fox, the ape, and the humble-bee,
SCENE III. Another part of the field.
I am glad at soul I have no other child:
Strikes him again
What dangers, by his highness' fail of issue,
Here 'tis.
Your nose says, no, you are not for it stands too right.
Move them no more by crossing their high will.
Madam, it is.
Where never Roman shall take note of him.
Yet tell me not, for I have heard it all.
That I would have spoke of:
Speak, nephew, were you by when it began?
Enter PERICLES, at one door, with all his train;  CLEON and DIONYZA, at the other. CLEON shows  PERICLES the tomb; whereat PERICLES makes  lamentation, puts on sackcloth, and in a mighty passion departs. Then exeunt CLEON and DIONYZA
In that which seems so.
Sits down
Bid her have good heart:
Go with me to clothe you as becomes you.
Enter SALISBURY, PEMBROKE, and BIGOT
Far be the thought of this from Henry's heart,
I am out of all other tune, methinks.
Cried he? and begg'd a' pardon?
not a holiday fool there but would give a piece
The sea, with such a storm as his bare head
Were I chief lord of all this spacious world,
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
Exit
The shadow of your sorrow hath destroy'd
You must not deny me: I must go with you to Belmont.
What will ensue hereof, there's none can tell;
Unto the camp, and profits will accrue.
I, now the voice of the recorded law,
And have no more of life than may suffice
I will prove it legitimate, sir, upon the oaths of
Is not that he t hat lies upon the ground?
Cloten, thou double villain, be thy name,
Call'd Roderigo.
The queen desires you to use some gentle
O time! thou must untangle this, not I;
O, beware, my lord, of jealousy;
The scarfed bark puts from her native bay,
Come, come, I'll go burn some sack; 'tis too late
Friar, not I	I have been drinking hard all night,
One spirit to command: they all do hate him
Believe me, cousin Gloucester,
More sharper than your swords, hie to the field:
They are coming to the play; I must be idle:
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
I'll lend you all my life to do you service.
So strongly that they dare not meet each other;
Be chosen with proclamations to-day,
More wonderful, when angels are so angry.
beard is more than a youth, and he that hath no
Hath virgin'd it e'er since. You gods! I prate,
To which is fixed, as an aim or butt,
And be not peevish-fond in great designs.
Commend my service to me sovereign.'
Too little payment for so great a debt.
The sum of all our answer is but this:
Content. 'Tis strange.
Into my private meditations?
Sennet. Exeunt all except BRUTUS and CASSIUS
Cheated of feature by dissembling nature,
O day! O day! O day! O hateful day!
Shout within
These eyes could never endure sweet beauty's wreck;
'Tis very true, my grief lies all within;
There's no disjunction to be made, but by--
Winding up days with toil and nights with sleep,
court; but for me, I have an answer will serve all
I partly guess; for I have loved ere now.
When it was less expected: he replied,
none but libertines delight in him; and the
Enter LODOVICO. MONTANO, CASSIO carried in a chair, and Officers with IAGO, prisoner
To listen our purpose.  This is thy office;
The more I stay, the more I'll succor thee.
When birds do sing, hey ding a ding, ding:
Aside
And with this horrible object, from low farms,
Our reverend cardinal carried.
If you can make't apparent
In virtue than in vengeance: they being penitent,
Sings
Dew-lapp'd like bulls, whose throats had hanging at 'em
How now, my lords! what, all unready so?
That hath abused and dishonour'd me
It is your former promise.
Sung thee asleep, his loving breast thy pillow:
Grey of Northumberland, this same is yours:
I'll gild it with the happiest terms I have.
How does my royal lord? How fares your majesty?
Alas, three of Master Ford's brothers watch the door
As plain as I see you now.
You give away myself, which is known mine;
To be o'erheard and taken napping so.
That's no matter: the feet might bear the verses.
And make my senses credit thy relation
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows;
off.
I lead espoused my bride along with me.
him so, that he shall suppose no other but that he
Exit DERCETAS
Some say a sore; but not a sore, till now made
And shivering shocks
Thou ask'st me such a question. Have I not been
Enter JULlA and LUCETTA
What I told you then,
Hath he said any thing?
[Aside]  Mass, 'twill be sore law, then; for he was
My bosom's lord sits lightly in his throne;
He thinks, nay, with all confidence he swears,
To slander music any more than once.
love thy husband, look to thy servants, cherish thy
Amazed, my lord? why looks your highness sad?
pox on't! I had rather not be so noble as I am;
Yonder comes my master, your brother.
To be a spokesman for Madam Silvia.
blowers up! Is there no military policy, how
Seem to besiege and make his bold waves tremble,
I'll have this crown of mine cut from my shoulders
Come, come, my son, I'll bring thee on thy way:
By my troth, yes; I count it but time lost to hear
And on the sudden dropp'd.
gentleman that danced with her told her she is much
And I, the mistress of your charms,
In common sense, sense saves another way.
Come, my good lord, away.
Be practised well to this, or they'll ne'er do't.
ACT II
[Aside to MENAS]  Go hang, sir, hang! Tell me of
Exit Francis
My brother's love, the devil, and my rage.
Why hast thou thus adjourn'd
Philomel, with melody,  and c.
Villain, thy own hand yields thy death's instrument.
Here, friend, 's another purse; in it a jewel
So, fare you well.
standing pool; who is whipped from tithing to
Corioli like a planet: now all's his:
Unfold it.
Wherein my grandsire and my father sat?
Which 'tis not fit you know, I not acquaint
Some bloody passion shakes your very frame:
Good Monsieur Charles, what's the new news at the
When they do hug him in their melting bosoms.
And every day I cannot come to woo.
For this was brief--I found them close together,
What says Lucentio to this shame of ours?
In self-same manner doth accuse my husband,
Good uncle, let this end where it begun;
By his great authority;
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
before the gods, I am not able to do,--the more
Or any air of music touch their ears,
come to him, at the first approach you must kneel,
Then go we in, to know his embassy;
Her very silence and her patience
As if he did contemn what he requested
he cannot study, and the other lives merrily because
You pull'd me by the cloak; would you speak with me?
When fearful wars point at me; her son gone,
Thunder
Ask him his name and orderly proceed
Amen. A man may, if he were of a fearful heart,
Before that England give the French the foil.
My purse, my person, my extremest means,
Exeunt
Enter TIMON
As did the youthful Paris once to Greece,
This to my lord the king.
[Aside to MENAS]                 Say in mine ear:
SONG
That ever fell upon this cursed earth.
Hector, then 'tis wars.
Well, there's for you: leave us.
Where didst thou see her? O unhappy girl!
Soldier, thou art: but his whole action grows
Let it be so: and you, my noble prince,
To young Octavius of the state of things.
will be known to-night, or never. Be you in the
I have some private schooling for you both.
Did scandal many a holy tear, took pity
Why muse you, sir? 'tis dinner-time.
And with no face, as 'twere, outfacing me,
Storm still
He's gone.
Re-enter Clown
Prisoner! to whom?
Thou monstrous injurer of heaven and earth!
that I have lost my edifice by mistaking the place
I have one word to say to you: look you, my good lord,
Single you thither then this dainty doe,
Bows toward her, and would under-peep her lids,
Do you with cheeks abash'd behold our works,
Subtle as Sphinx; as sweet and musical
[Aside]  No, 'faith; not so much as his patience.
Much comfort in't; says 'My poor prisoner,
Good prudence; smatter with your gossips, go.
The unity the king thy brother made
He hath found the meaning, for which we mean
good diet, as I told you,--
Rebuke and dread correction wait on us
she's dead,
Lord of lords!
Away with it! come, let me have a bigger.
Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and JAQUES
Most heartily I do beseech the court
For which I will divide my crown with her,
For which I must not plead, but that I am
than now in first seeing he had proved himself a
Is this the fashion in the court of England?
Madam, this glove.
Your pleasure, madam?
Look, with what courteous action
Scratching could not make it worse, an 'twere such
Glide thither in a day? Then, true Pisanio,--
Now, God delay our rebellion! as we are ourselves,
[Aside]  How all the other passions fleet to air,
Exit
Who put my man i' the stocks?
Come, Menas.
I am a bastard too; I love bastards: I am a bastard
So like a courtier, contempt nor bitterness
proverbs: he will give the devil his due.
For a quart of ale is a dish for a king.
Why went you not with master doctor, maid?
Will you undo yourselves?
ACT I
into whom nature hath so crowded humours that his
Enter ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, ANTONIO, GONZALO, ADRIAN, FRANCISCO, and others
Cousin, farewell: no further go in this
Who is 't can read a woman? Is there more?
That shall first spring and be most delicate.
Ay, my good lord; a very virtuous maid,
It were a delicate stratagem, to shoe
But in this troublous time what's to be done?
They say, in great extremity; and fear'd
Than wanton dalliance with a paramour.
What says the other troop?
A choking gall and a preserving sweet.
What hast here? ballads?
Mopsa must be your mistress: marry, garlic,
I'll come to him.
For thy conceit is soaking, will draw in
To smooth the ice, or add another hue
Whose watery arch and messenger am I,
Ay, by and by;
O most pernicious woman!
You are not Pinch's patient, are you, sir?
I have a young conception in my brain;
Take her away.
For it hath cow'd my better part of man!
And, with his head over his shoulder turn'd,
Murder!
Yonder comes the troop.
Welcome, my good friends!
SCENE V. Another part of the Park.
Sir Thomas Grey, knight, of Northumberland,
I would not speak. I pray you, spare me: 'faith,
Come, gaoler, bring me where the goldsmith is:
I have not deserved it.
The name and not the thing.
would tell twenty.
them. Come, I know thou lovest me: and at night,
Cassio, my lord, hath kill'd a young Venetian
And grumbling York: and not the least of these
Seeing AUTOLYCUS
Petruchio, since we are stepp'd thus far in,
And cannot soon revolt and change your mind.
When misery could beguile the tyrant's rage,
Enter LENNOX
More than in your addition.
Comes to the privy coffer of the state;
Go, base intruder! overweening slave!
Show'd like a mine. Their dwarfish pages were
This Hector far surmounted Hannibal,--
though, I know, to divide him inventorially would
Come, come; let's see him out at gates; come.
The fool slides o'er the ice that you should break.
Pale, pale as ashes, all bedaub'd in blood,
The perdition of th' athversary hath been very
Stabbing him
[Within]  Nor to-day here you must not; come again
For thy three thousand ducats here is six.
Repairs him with occasion? This happy day
ha, ha! where? in Genoa?
They retire without the door
confess nothing, nor I deny nothing. I am sorry for my cousin.
In terms of choice I am not solely led
'Tis he:--O brave Iago, honest and just,
Away! be gone.
may beg; four pound of prunes, and as many of
Whereof take you one quarter into France,
Put me to some impatience: though I lose
I have no exquisite reason for't, but I have reason
Whom I have sent for to determine this,
eyes; I will move storms, I will condole in some
where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their
learn me how to remember any extraordinary pleasure.
Enter HOLOFERNES, SIR NATHANIEL, and DULL
For with his soul fled all my worldly solace,
O noble judge! O excellent young man!
And interchangeably set down their hands,
Read over Julia's heart, thy first best love,
But, after all this fooling, I would not have it so.
with you. Your father and my uncle hath made
A plague of all cowards, still say I.
I doubt whether their legs be worth the sums
Have you pray'd to-night, Desdemona?
But 'twas thy beauty that provoked me.
Which often, thus, correcting thy stout heart,
No, forbear;
Shall stay with us: order for sea is given;
To help me sort such needful ornaments
offered him, he put it by with the back of his hand,
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
A valiant son-in-law thou shalt enjoy;
Why dost thou lead these men about the streets?
Too late, good Diomed: call my guard, I prithee.
Enter a second Servingman
To hold you in perpetual amity,
I read it in the grammar long ago.
Warwick and Clarence give me both your hands:
Exit DIOMEDES
My legs are longer though, to run away.
No,
are not mine.
Look, how our partner's rapt.
Too cruel any where.
To keep her still, and men in awe,
My marvel and my message. To your court
Good madam, if by me you'll be advised,
Owen, Owen, the same; and his son-in-law Mortimer,
And sold to slavery, of my redemption thence
I know, by that same eye, there's some good news.
And ever will--though he do shake me off
what remedy? As there is no true cuckold but
Therefore thou must be hang'd at the state's charge.
SCENE I. Milan. The DUKE's palace.
Ha! wherefore?
Enter PETRUCHIO and his man GRUMIO
From whence?
Indeed, my lord,
Enter Thisbe
Was not my lord
With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come,
Lady!
Is by the stern Lord Clifford done to death.
The great doom's image! Malcolm! Banquo!
Not till you have slept; I fear me you'll be in till then.
Ha! let me see her: out, alas! she's cold:
Shall never sag with doubt nor shake with fear.
I must confess to you, sir, I am no fighter: I am
But not intentively: I did consent,
Can in this desert place buy entertainment,
How now, good fellow! why shakest thou so? Fear
News, my good lord, from Rome.
Sir, I entreat you home with me to dinner.
You have mistook, my lady,
[Snatching it]  Why, what's that to you?
Romeo, away, be gone!
make merry withal?
Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate
Aged contusions and all brush of time,
I say they shall not come.
Goodman Verges, sir, speaks a little off the
Is a strange brooch in this all-hating world.
If she in chains of magic were not bound,
I'll no gainsaying.
And who durst mine when Warwick bent his brow?
So, by your circumstance, you call me fool.
Give me thy hand
Let it command a mirror hither straight,
But that you take what doth to you belong,
The loss, the gain, the ordering on't, is all
Nor can one England brook a double reign,
Shall never see so much, nor live so long.
To bring thee to the gallows, not the font.
Exit
Exit GRUMIO
Told thee no lies, made thee no mistakings, served
That this our court, infected with their manners,
But so it must be, if the king miscarry.
Which we, God knows, have turn'd another way,
Dives that lived in purple; for there he is in his
There where my fortune lives, there my life dies.
Meantime look gracious on thy prostrate thrall.
A pack of sorrows which would press you down,
Your grace doo's me as great honours as can be
With them forgive yourself.
Why how now? do you speak in the sick tune?
And mine, with my heart in't; and now farewell
Sir, for my thoughts, you have them ill to friend
Chop off his head, man; somewhat we will do:
Whereof by parcels she had something heard,
This is the monkey's own giving out: she is
Is left to govern. Bear you it in mind,
And I dare well maintain it with my life,
He is a very proper man.
remember it.
You wrong me, Signior Gremio: give me leave.
With telling me of the mouldwarp and the ant,
Frighting her pale-faced villages with war
Speak not so loud.
'Tis known already that I am possess'd
Till he had forged himself a name o' the fire
Not so, not so; his life is parallel'd
To County Paris, to prepare him up
Give me some help here, ho! If thou proceed
Than to be pitied of thee. Prithee, bring me
If it would please him come and marry her!'
he hath eaten: they are never curst but when they
The smallness of a gnat to air, and then
These babes for Clarence weep and so do I;
Whose blush doth thaw the consecrated snow
If, rather than to marry County Paris,
Play, music, then! Nay, you must do it soon.
And the ear-deafening voice o' the oracle,
SCENE VI. The forest.
What is the trust or strength of foolish man?
Faint-hearted Woodvile, prizest him 'fore me?
SCENE IV. LANGLEY. The DUKE OF YORK's garden.
And will to-morrow with his trumpet call
Deserve such pity of him as the wolf
Biron did swear himself out of all suit.
he had the honour to be the officer at a place there
put me down. Methinks sometimes I have no more wit
For you my staff of office did I break
This was not counterfeit: there is too great
Be pale: I beg but leave to air this jewel; see!
With an unslipping  knot, take Antony
An enemy to my son. How now, Pisanio!
Were it good, think you?
Take pity of your town and of your people,
very monster in apparel, and not like a Christian
Of dire combustion and confused events
To his full height. On, on, you noblest English.
Ay, that the king is dead.
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
And our consent, for better trial of you,
Is only Helena. To her, my lord,
Be it so.
Madam, sit you and fear not: whom we raise,
of this walk, and my horns I bequeath your husbands.
My good master,
But what, o' God's name, doth become of this?
To-morrow night look that thou lie alone;
Marry, sir, lullaby to your bounty till I come
So, on your patience evermore attending,
have put themselves into voluntary exile with him,
When I have fought with Pembroke and his fellows,
Thou art so fat-witted, with drinking of old sack
A strange tongue makes my cause more strange,
That virtue must go through. We must not stint
I never gave it him.
And spies a far-off shore where he would tread,
Ha!
He shall be none;
here. Do you understand me?
Bounding between the two moist elements,
Against proud Somerset and William Pole,
More than his singularity, he goes
Out of the way, that your converse and business
Whose double bosoms seem to wear one heart,
Hang thou there upon the tomb,
Ay, come:--O Jove!--do come:--I shall be plagued.
By the wrongs I suffer and the blows I bear.
And even that power which gave me first my oath
Which is the hot condition of their blood;
SCENE I. The frontiers of Mantua. A forest.
Re-enter MARK ANTONY
To tread them with her tender-feeling feet.
Exit PANDARUS. An alarum
Sweet smoke of rhetoric!
I am in this earthly world; where to do harm
But since it would not, he had none of me.
Face not me: thou hast braved many men; brave not
I take my leave of you.
Re-enter DIOMEDES
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
They are beaten, sir, and our advantage serves
That shouldst repair my youth, thou heap'st
They are in action.
SCENE III. Before OLIVER'S house.
Monster, I do smell all horse-piss; at
Enter LUCIUS, with his sword drawn
Justice, most gracious duke, O, grant me justice!
Enter a Servant
All clinquant, all in gold, like heathen gods,
In such a time nothing becoming you,
I think this be the most villanous house in all
What dost thou know me for?
Make thy words faith'd? No: what I should deny,--
Which outwardly ye show? My noble partner
Good uncle, tell your tale; I have done.
'Zounds, sir, you are one of those that will not
My man-monster hath drown'd his tongue in sack:
This sword and these my wounds? Let the Egyptians
Yet can I not of such tame patience boast
Come, Proteus; 'tis your penance but to hear
O princely Buckingham I'll kiss thy hand,
Dardan, and Tymbria, Helias, Chetas, Troien,
sayest thou to this tune, matter and method? Is't
Or shall they last, and we rejoice in them?
We'll bring him to his house
Great thanks, great Pompey.
word. Well, set thee down, sorrow! for so they say
If you do love old men, if your sweet sway
And snatch them straight away? We here below
And, commendable proved, let's die in pride.
Stand to me in this cause. O mother! wife!
There is no malice in this burning coal;
them and a great cause, they should be esteemed
How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,
What mean'st thou, Aaron? wherefore didst thou this?
Yet I not doing this, the fool had borne
That.
Which throes thee much to yield.
And France, whose armour conscience buckled on,
Come, come, away.
Nor suffer others.
Look in my face.
I will bethink me. May I speak with Antonio?
That hast so long walk'd hand in hand with time:
'em. I'll scratch your heads: you must be seeing
Exit
Why, Buckingham, is the traitor Cade surprised?
Quickly tell me so mush.
That their events can never fall out good.
Bringing me here to kill me.
Lo, ere I can repeat this curse again,
She is desperate here; a peevish self-wind harlotry,
I am a maid,
I follow you.
And it appears he is beloved of those
The important acting of your dread command? O, say!
Were play'd in jest by counterfeiting actors?
God's will! my liege, would you and I alone,
Peace be with Burgundy!
And change misdoubt to resolution:
There lies the man, slain by young Romeo,
I charge your charity withal, leaving her
Romeo, bon jour! there's a French salutation
There shalt thou find my cousin Beatrice
And give assurance to Baptista Minola,
Exit
The riches of the ship is come on shore!
After this golden day of victory.
if you will let your lady know I am here to speak
And every object that might make me fear
Against the steep uprising of the hill?
They fight, and all enter the city
As that is desperate which we would prevent.
Nay, let us share thy thoughts, as thou dost ours.
Our father he hath writ, so hath our sister,
Which seasons comfort. Who may this be? Fie!
That sun, I pray, may never set! I have told him
Is not this strange?
True, worthy Banquo; he is full so valiant,
Nature should be so conversant with pain,
Do my good morrow to them, and anon
To scatter and disperse the giddy Goths,
Nay, I am sure she does. She came to him th' other
and yet he would embrace no counsel, take no warning
pretty jest your daughter told us of.
Blush'd at herself; and she, in spite of nature,
By your patience, no. My stars shine darkly over
By unkind usage, dangerous countenance,
A fearful battle render'd you in music:
Then, dreadful trumpet, sound the general doom!
What's he that wishes so?
Alexander. What he bids be done is finished with
his company anatomized, that he might take a measure
shall be any further afflicted, we two will still be
You are deceived, your brother Gloucester hates you.
spirits and fires!
the flowers of Troy, I can tell you: but mark
A precious ring, that lightens all the hole,
down the Tower too. Come, let's away.
Of burning Rome.
Nor the soles of her shoe?
That roan shall by my throne.
Pale ashes of the house of Lancaster!
This looks not like a nuptial.
A man, a prince, by him so benefited!
Might in their working do you that offence,
How dread an army hath enrounded him;
A black day will it be to somebody. Ratcliff!
Scorning advice, read the conclusion then:
Pardon old Gower,--this longs the text.
Writings all tending to the great opinion
And he shall buy my daughter; and her presence
unto whom I was going; I shall there have money, or
What kind of help?
He is Cupid's grandfather and learns news of him.
And put in every honest hand a whip
O that it were to do! What have we done?
Exit
Is he dispatch'd?
I departed not and left him there.
then thy manners must be wicked; and wickedness is
But let it rest. Now, Licio, to you:
Follow me close; I'll bring you to't. Adieu.
Re-enter LAFEU
Why, that is spoken like a toward prince.
All's well now, sweeting; come away to bed.
Thou shalt not stir a foot to seek a foe.
Accursed be he that seeks to make them foes!
were troth-plight to her.
Why, how now, Ajax! wherefore do you thus? How now,
Shall cry for blessings on him: may he live
Tawny-finn'd fishes; my bended hook shall pierce
I saw her once
Why?
bestowed that time in the tongues that I have in
firago. I had a pass with him, rapier, scabbard and
What in the world should make me now deceive,
If wrongs be evils and enforce us kill,
But never hope to know why I should marry her.
Do now attend the queen? Since they did plot
do more for an almond than he for a commodious drab.
The better to denote her to the doctor,
As rain to water, or devil to his dam.
Exit
There's letters from my mother: what the import is,
To me and to my aid the blest infusions
He draweth out the thread of his verbosity finer
Out of all eyes, tongues, minds and injuries.
I will prevent this, detect my wife, be revenged on
This realm dismantled was
Ay, and Wall too.
This airy charm is for, I'll break my staff,
It faded on the crowing of the cock.
How far into the morning is it, lords?
Being men of such great leading as you are,
I am too childish-foolish for this world.
Nay, then, thus:
Which is a wonder how his grace should glean it,
shoulder-bone; how he cried to me for help and said
O happy horse, to bear the weight of Antony!
Do; cuff him soundly, but never draw thy sword.
When we may profit meet, and come too late.
As one that takes his leave. Mine honest friends,
This man, whom hand to hand I slew in fight,
should enjoy half his revenue,'--My son Edgar!
It was, Andronicus.
That best can aid your action.
Can curses pierce the clouds and enter heaven?
Thou hast frighted the word out of his right sense,
May the two latter darken and expend;
What, for being a puritan? thy exquisite reason,
Let me, if not by birth, have lands by wit:
What have you done? Behold, the heavens do ope,
And seek how we may prejudice the foe.
And can digest as much: make no compare
Exit a Knight
This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl
others to the inns of court; down with them all.
When holy and devout religious men
Yet know, my lord, I was provoked by him;
Bear with me, good boy, I am much forgetful.
To do what?
maintained that salamander of yours with fire any
me in the garret one night, as we were scouring my
To be by oath enjoin'd to this. Farewell!
Sir, we have known together in Orleans.
And with thy bloody and invisible hand
All these well furnish'd by the Duke of Bretagne
SCENE IV. A Hall in York Place.
There weep and leave it crying; and, for the babe
She is damned for it.
Lovers can see to do their amorous rites
So then the Volsces stand but as at first,
Could great men thunder
Exeunt
It is the bright day that brings forth the adder;
embassies; that they have seemed to be together,
The Tomb of the ANDRONICI appearing; the Tribunes  and Senators aloft. Enter, below, from one side,  SATURNINUS and his Followers; and, from the other side, BASSIANUS and his Followers; with drum and colours
How now, my lord!
to master Jew's?
To set thee here?
My countryman; but yet I know him not.
sent thee thither. For debt, Pompey? or how?
For Warwick is a subtle orator,
canst thou? a red murrain o' thy jade's tricks!
Work you then.
But not without that harmful stroke, which since
For many of our princes--woe the while!--
I would your grace would constrain me to tell.
Give the all-hail to thee and cry 'Be blest
SCENE I. Bangor. The Archdeacon's house.
Ay, hand from hand, my love, and heart from heart.
stands, I could heartily wish this had not befallen;
This Armado is a Spaniard, that keeps here in court;
Therefore the winds, piping to us in vain,
Worthily term'd them merciless to us!
Become your time of day; and yours, and yours,
Which to this hour bewail the injury,
The minute I began.
have not called up her steward Malvolio and bid him
To follow Caesar in his triumph, since
For that he dares us to't.
What if I do obey?
At all times alike
Seek out King John and fall before his feet;
And now I will unclasp a secret book,
More whore, more mischief first; I have given you earnest.
My lord, 'tis nothing.
Ay, that's my name.
You shall go see your pupils presently.
Upon a heap a hundred ghastly women,
Look in a glass, and call thy image so:
Groping for trouts in a peculiar river.
To find thy brother Bassianus dead.
God should be so obdurate as yourselves,
I am for other than for dancing measures.
Exit
Will't please you eat? will't please your
What! this gentleman will out-talk us all.
Please it your grace to be advertised
He hath commission from thy wife and me
boy, the next way home.
Something that hath a reference to my state
It shall be suffigance.
Was born of woman.
Thou lovest me not; for, brother, if thou didst,
A flatterer's would not, though they do appear
To many lords and ladies; there will be
Is this the government of Britain's isle,
'Tis one Iago, ancient to the general.
Yare, yare, good Iras; quick. Methinks I hear
Incenses them to send destruction.
ANTIPHOLUS
Expecting absent friends. As thou lovest her,
But when shall we set the savage bull's horns on
Dieu vous garde, monsieur.
Sword, pike, knife, gun, or need of any engine,
To unpath'd waters, undream'd shores, most certain
There was a fourth man, in a silly habit,
O, peace, peace!
First Serving-man	Content: I'll to the surgeon's.
What, will you have me, or your pearl again?
Sure, Luciana, it is two o'clock.
A thought of added honour torn from Hector.
Here, Tamora, though grieved with killing grief.
into a notable contempt. If you will see it, follow
What means this noise?
Whose heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave
Exit
Will never more break faith advisedly.
No malice, sir; no more than well becomes
I stay too long: but here my father comes.
Yes, faith; it is my cousin's duty to make curtsy
Happy is your grace,
I can tell you; but young Romeo will be older when
hath, at a word, he hath, believe me: Robert
And how my men will stay themselves from laughter
Varro's Servant	I could render one.
Exit
Is he ready
I thank him.
I pray you, tell Signior Lucentio that his father is
What, not an oath? nay, then the world goes hard
To make this bitter to thee.
Made known herself my daughter.
I will, sweet queen.
Reads
[To DORSET]
Do we shake hands. All come to this? The hearts
To be suspected, framed to make women false.
fluent as the sea: turn the sands into eloquent
Mistress Ford! I have had ford enough; I was thrown
But tell me, dost thou know my lady Silvia?
A spider steep'd, and one may drink, depart,
Which he calls interest. Cursed be my tribe,
Strength match'd with strength, and power confronted power:
To QUEEN MARGARET
for consulships?
That both our powers, with smiling
Of all our fortunes: but if we haply scape,
Of the dreamer Merlin and his prophecies,
No, sir, not I; I came from Syracuse.
To bind him to remember my good will;
I'll make him glad to seem Vincentio,
My soul would sue as advocate for thee.
Be wisely definite; nor i' the appetite;
I'll find Demetrius and revenge this spite.
Horrible steep.
Why dost thou laugh? it fits not with this hour.
Never did captive with a freer heart
Get you to bed; faith, You'll be sick to-morrow
Had of your father claim'd this son for his?
I am, as thy general is.
Hark! I am call'd; my little spirit, see,
To us in our election this day,
And high and low beguiles the rich and poor:
The shape of Love's Tyburn that hangs up simplicity.
To punish me for what you make me do.
May never glorious sun reflex his beams
For suffering so the causes of our wreck.
And won thy love, doing thee injuries;
that they live by your bare words.
Did push it out of farther question.
shoulders; no sighs but of my breathing; no tears
I gave it freely ever; and there's none
And will, no doubt, be found.
A hilding for a livery, a squire's cloth,
End in a word: such is the breath of kings.
First if all obstacles were cut away,
Pray you then,
Have at you now!
I will not fail her; speak it privately.
How much unlike art thou to Portia!
You teach me how a beggar should be answer'd.
Then I'll go fetch an axe.
Not with fond shekels of the tested gold,
Sail how thou canst, have wind and tide thy friend,
Her coronation. Katharine no more
In measureless content.
good parts aside I have no other charms.
I shall recount hereafter; for this present,
Successful in the battles that he fights,
He thinks that you should bear me on your shoulders.
Why, fool?
He flatly says he'll not lay down his arms.
Remote from all the pleasures of the world;
Flourish. Exeunt
My Lord of Winchester, I know your mind;
With this thy fair and outward character.
Room for six scotches more.
If you think meet, this afternoon will post
Yet in the trial much opinion dwells;
I'll to the friar, to know his remedy:
Ay, my lord.
A moth of peace, and he go to the war,
What, fought you with them all?
When neither is attended, and I think
Together sung 'Te Deum.' So she parted,
The most replenished sweet work of nature,
Exit Provost
I must obey.
You may as well do anything most hard,
Than my heart cool with mortifying groans.
before the priest; and certainly a woman's thought
How say you to a fat tripe finely broil'd?
That in thy likeness thou appear to us!
I'll bear them hence; but from their ashes shall be rear'd
If ever I thy face by daylight see:
Environ'd me about, and howled in mine ears
My liege, old Gaunt commends him to your majesty.
We hear, our bloody cousins are bestow'd
Good my liege,
Exit
He seeks my life; his reason well I know:
obstruction?
Thou call'st on him that hates thee: it was he
To the whole race of mankind, high and low! Amen.
A little water clears us of this deed:
Therefore Heaven Nature charged
Thou'ldst not believe thy deeds: but I'll report it
Commended to our master, not to us:
think your mystery in stratagem can bring this
Ay, every joint should seem to curse and ban:
Nor brass nor stone nor parchment bears not one,
Exit
disease our better mirth.
Is't good to soothe him in these contraries?
Or else I will discover nought to thee.
Though rebels wound thee with their horses' hoofs:
Then should I know you by description;
Which should bedeck thy shape, thy love, thy wit:
Rome's readiest champions, repose you here in rest,
seven years
Come, bloody Clifford, rough Northumberland,
That she would soon be here.
Nay, before God, Hal, if Percy be alive, thou get'st
Exeunt
But this your minion, whom I know you love,
Portia is Brutus' harlot, not his wife.
And talk so like a waiting-gentlewoman
Most noble sir, arise; the queen approaches:
Losing a mite, a mountain gain.
Now that their souls are topful of offence.
I shall receive the money for the same.
Is lighted on poor Hastings' wretched head!
'Item: She can spin.'
With blood of thine already.
Question: why, an hour in clamour and a quarter in
O, that once more you knew but what you are!
'Tis not unknown to you, Antonio,
One vice, but of a minute old, for one
Thrust but these men away, and I'll forgive you,
Small showers last long, but sudden storms are short;
We'll slip you for a season; but our jealousy
Fair thoughts and happy hours attend on you!
Talk of court news; and we'll talk with them too,
Flourish. Enter KING HENRY VI, CLARENCE, WARWICK,  SOMERSET, HENRY OF RICHMOND, OXFORD, MONTAGUE, and Lieutenant of the Tower
Exit
Only in this disguise I think't no sin
O, my all-worthy lord!
I shall not look upon his like again.
Sirs, take your places and be vigilant:
cudgels. God b' wi' you, and keep you, and heal your pate.
sentenced and stay upon execution.
Mad world! mad kings! mad composition!
Make work upon ourselves, for heaven or hell.
Ay, but the mustard is too hot a little.
In bootless prayer have they been held up,
Marry, do I, sir; and I came to acquaint you with a
Away! get you away.
The peace of heaven is theirs that lift their swords
Your bugle eyeballs, nor your cheek of cream,
Enter HORATIO and MARCELLUS
Did put the yoke upon 's; which to shake off
That want no ear but yours.
To teach a teacher ill beseemeth me.
Conceit upon her father.
Well, I'll not say what I intend for thee:
God pless your majesty!
Dispatch.
This discord's ground, the music would not please.
He shall spurn fate, scorn death, and bear
Avoid then, fiend! what tell'st thou me of supping?
Both tugging to be victors, breast to breast,
This Ajax is half made of Hector's blood:
Call't not a plot:
Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge!
No, Leonato,
O, shall I say, I thank you, gentle wife?
I may not conceal them, sir.
Farewell, my lord: securely I espy
But say, I could not help it.
For love of her that's gone,
You do not love Maria; Longaville
Though with their high wrongs I am struck to the quick,
O heavenly God!
Que dit-il, monsieur?
Into this chiefest thicket of the park.
Shame hath a bastard fame, well managed;
But old folks, many feign as they were dead;
Perchance she cannot meet him: that's not so.
Ay, or I would these hands might never part.
to the doors: watch to-night, pray to-morrow.
Sirs, drag them from the pit unto the prison:
Vaulting ambition, which o'erleaps itself
Hop as light as bird from brier;
'I am yours for ever.'
Mistress, what cheer?
Enter Shepherd and Clown
I see your brows are full of discontent,
Shall they see us?
As cherubins, all guilt: the madams too,
To know for what he comes, and whence he comes,
the goodness that is cheap in beauty makes beauty
And the youth, mistook by me,
He that hath suffer'd this disorder'd spring
I'm not their father; yet who this should be,
Nay, good my lord,--
To trade and traffic with Macbeth
a bloody coxcomb too: for the love of God, your
Whose great decision hath much blood let forth
Is not to-morrow, boy, the ides of March?
These couchings and these lowly courtesies
Proffers his only daughter to your grace
Vouchsafe me yet your picture for my love,
If you will swear you have not done't, you lie;
My gracious uncle--
pretty encounters, press it to death: away!
Their several kinds have done. My high charms work
Yours would I catch, fair Hermia, ere I go;
I myself reprehend his own person, for I am his
But I beseech your grace, without offence,--
You'll see your Rome embraced with fire before
I, sir, am Dromio; command him away.
And that he will, and shall, if Lucius live.
The wolves have prey'd; and look, the gentle day,
And all-thing unbecoming.
His oration to his soldiers
likeness: this was sometime a paradox, but now the
As honest as I am.
Was Mahomet inspired with a dove?
But shall she marry him?
Stray'd his affection in unlawful love?
It is the cause. Yet I'll not shed her blood;
Seats her by him
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear.
Let them lay by their helmets and their spears,
galling at this gentleman twice or thrice. You
[Aside]	Then poor Cordelia!
Ladies! what are their wills?
Is it no more to be your daughter than
And if thou want'st a cord, the smallest thread
Gentlemen, rise: his highness is not well.
It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of
Do make their children blind;
Hast thou beheld a fresher gentlewoman?
Now, what's the matter. Provost?
A very mean meaning.
If die, brave death, when princes die with us!
That stops my way in Padua. Grumio,
I will not come to-day: tell them so, Decius.
Nay, rather, good my lords, be second to me:
It is too full o' the milk of human kindness
To speak with Timon.
Singing
Though we upon this mountain's basis by
Withdraw thee, Valentine: who's this comes here?
To signify that rebels there are up
Throwing the water in their faces
Roguery!
Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress's brother.
Go, girl; I cannot blame thee now to weep;
Come, lords, we trifle time away; I long
Than this weak arm: discomfort guides my tongue
With rounds of waxen tapers on their heads,
hoof is more musical than the pipe of Hermes.
his own glass, his own trumpet, his own chronicle;
The powers above us. Could I rage and roar
The sides o' the world, against all colour here
Then, dear my liege, mine honour let me try;
Hath this extent, no more. Rude am I in my speech,
There I have another bad match: a bankrupt, a
is, even till the altitude of his virtue.
You'll leave your noise anon, ye rascals: do you
What a strange case was that! now, before the gods,
I did.
Ay, to devour him; as the hungry plebeians would the
Or wring redress from you. Hear me, O hear me, here!
Received his love?
Exit OSRIC
Redeem from broking pawn the blemish'd crown,
Give way to what's seen now! Sir, you yourself
What hath she done, prince, that can soil our mothers?
evening. Lord, I could not endure a husband with a
Decoct their cold blood to such valiant heat?
These likelihoods confirm her flight from hence.
Should straight fall mad, or else die suddenly.
Thy thoughts I cleave to. What's thy pleasure?
O, ye're well met: the hoarded plague o' the gods
Who, frighted from my country, did wed
What wound did ever heal but by degrees?
If he see aught in you that makes him like,
Is he not approved in the height a villain, that
For France hath flaw'd the league, and hath attach'd
Worth six on him.
Enter PAGE, SHALLOW, and SLENDER
No less beg than a kingdom: if he please
And prophesying with accents terrible
Bury with those that wore them, these base slaves,
'Hold thy peace, thou knave,' knight? I shall be
SCENE I. Without the walls of Athens.
My lord, this argues conscience in your grace;
What maids lack from head to heel:
And sit thee by our side:
Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest,
Who is of Rome worse hated than of you,
Do you pity him? no, he deserves no pity. Wilt
They all bustle about CORIOLANUS, crying
He gains by death that hath such means to die:
fingres, de mails--
His name with zealous fervor sanctify:
If the matter were good, my lord, I durst swear
Your partner, as I hear, must die to-morrow,
fool make a third, where he shall find the letter:
Write from it, if you can, in hand or phrase;
ANTIPHOLUS
Even when you please, since you will have it so.
That must destroy thee.
Afresh within me, and these thy offices,
By that same god, what god soe'er it be,
With him, my lord; for he hath done me wrong.
I will be brief: your noble son is mad:
And at the door too, like a post with packets.
May bare the raven's eye! I lodge in fear;
swear truth out of England but he would make you
Pause, if thou wilt.
And may that thought, when I imagine ill
What mutter you, or what conspire you, lords?
Let witchcraft join with beauty, lust with both!
I cannot tarry: I knew a wench married in an
By the Athenian garment be had on?
From plume-pluck'd Richard; who with willing soul
[Within]  My liege, beware; look to thyself;
Where it fits not you to know.
Than savages could suffer: thou didst drink
Call that same Isabel here once again; I would speak with her.
My crown, mine own ambition and my queen.
They call this bed-work, mappery, closet-war;
and all, like him that leaped into the custard; and
I had thought, by making this well known unto you,
I would divorce me from thy mother's tomb,
Well pray you, father.
But think you, Helen,
is writ. Look, the unfolding star calls up the
He's but a mad lord, and nought but humour sways him.
wouldst not have slipped out of my contemplation: but
Some mortally, some slightly touch'd, some falling
Was not devised for the realm of France:
But altogether lacks the abilities
commander; and that with his own hand he slew the
And never false. Soft, ho! what trunk is here
more in joy at first hearing he was a man-child
Are stuck upon thee: volumes of report
For who is he, whose chin is but enrich'd
How could that be?
We render you the tenth, to be ta'en forth,
My cherry lips have often kiss'd thy stones,
Of their breath only!
As the indifferent children of the earth.
All curses madded Hecuba gave the Greeks,
I shall not need transport my words by you;
If so, I have derision medicinable,
Unpeg the basket on the house's top.
A heavy reckoning for you, sir. But the comfort is,
To the vulgar eye, that he bears all things fairly.
All-hallond eve.
He speaks not like a man of God's making.
Takes up HOTSPUR on his back
And curbs himself even of his natural scope
wealth of Windsor Castle.
Exeunt
And yet the steer, the heifer and the calf
Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle lambs,
Keep thou the napkin, and go boast of this:
All mine own folly--the society,
Fresh as a bridegroom; and his chin new reap'd
fain hear some question 'tween you tway.
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
It was commanded so.
O, is't come to this?
ill together: our virtues would be proud, if our
To these great fellows: sound and be hang'd, sound out!
Yet Edmund was beloved:
A scullion!
We are thy sovereign, Clifford, kneel again;
God for his Richard hath in heavenly pay
mercy, friend; go you with me, and I will use your
So far beneath your soft and tender breeding,
My ladies both, good day to you.
If I dream not, thou art AEmilia:
The music, ho!
stick it in thy cap: when Alencon and myself were
So my untruth had not provoked him to it,
Striking her: she falls
votarist: you have told me she hath received them
To think upon her woes I do protest
to keep his name company!--
You beg more than 'word,' then. Cox my passion!
With forms to his conceit? and all for nothing!
For Talbot means no goodness by his looks.
Were mine at once. No, come thou home, Rousillon,
My books and instruments shall be my company,
Novi hominem tanquam te: his humour is lofty, his
Was nothing less than bloody tyranny.
Let pity not be believed!' There she shook
Sir, I will answer any thing. But, I beseech you,
Prithee, allow the wind.
[Aside]  A pretty moral.
my mind! Shall we go prove what's to be done?
come then: the appurtenance of welcome is fashion
To signify the approaching of his lord;
Enter PISANIO and IACHIMO
Now, pray you, let me see it; for mine eye,
Better once than never, for never too late.
Mine own desert.
O, then I see that madmen have no ears.
But yet an union in partition;
love, and by what more dear a better proposer could
kingdom with a dagger of lath, and drive all thy
It is a thing I made, which hath the king
could see the puppets dallying.
Yes, forsooth, I will hold my tongue; so your face
God save his majesty!
Take your commission; hie you to your bands:
To thee particularly and to all the Volsces
SCENE II. The same.
not three of my hundred and fifty left alive; and
If they can brook I bow a knee to man.
Contenteth me, and worth a monarchy.
'To Julia.' Say, from whom?
It is Brabantio. General, be advised;
no black envy
Come hither purposely to poison me.--
So great weight in his lightness. If he fill'd
Why stand these royal fronts amazed thus?
Like a bold flood o'er-bear. O, come, go in,
That is another simple sin in you, to bring the ewes
Provided that, when he's removed, your highness
long, I must get a sconce for my head and ensconce
Come, poor babe:
That the soul of our grandam might haply inhabit a bird.
Say 'pardon,' king; let pity teach thee how:
knaves in Kendal green came at my back and let drive
Then with a passion would I shake the world;
SCENE III. Pomfret Castle.
I shall devise something: but, I pray you, commend
To glad your ear, and please your eyes.
You're welcome: what's your will?
What ribs of oak, when mountains melt on them,
To make that only true we now intend,
The very place puts toys of desperation,
Presently we'll try: come, let's away about it:
The very list, the very utmost bound
big enough for him otherwise he might put on a hat,
Until to-morrow morning, lords, farewell.
Without controlment, justice, or revenge?
Which was to my belief witness'd the rather,
And break the foresaid peace. Let the king know,
So make the choice of thy own time, for I,
Then, if you can,
And disinherited thine only son.
Never.
Will't please you hear me?
Except you mean with obstinate repulse
Would all those fatterers were thine enemies then,
That for a trifle that was bought with blood
And I.
And let belief and life encounter so
Words to the heat of deeds too cold breath gives.
And make them know what 'tis to let a queen
poor four of us.
a week with bran and water.
O, if it should, how would thy guts fall about thy
Distinguishes the swift, the slow, the subtle,
Precious, celestial? Wherefore speaks he this
No had, my lord! why, did you not provoke me?
I will rather sue to be despised than to deceive so
But not kissed your keeper's daughter?
Enter BIONDELLO
Forthwith we'll send him hence to Brittany,
Of this commission? I believe, not any.
The iron of itself, though heat red-hot,
Why?
Further this act of grace: and from this hour
I will not be afraid of death and bane,
Hath ta'en your part; to have so much to do
'Some achieve greatness,'--
Trumpet sounds
Roam thither, then.
And so, ere answer knows what question would,
You think of other place. The ambassador,
That day that made my sister thirteen years.
make a circle; if conjure up love in her in his true
Will't not off?
I rather would have lost my life betimes
Of being taken by the insolent foe
Come on, my lords, the better foot before:
When false opinion, whose wrong thought defiles thee,
Exeunt POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and Messenger
And welcome, Somerset: I hold it cowardice
Descend to darkness and the burning lake!
Of one poor scruple, nay, if the scale do turn
my house; thither they send one another: I'll
may be ten times found; by being ever kept, it is
Prithee, come hither: what fair lady's that?
With most gladness:
Come your way, sir. 'Bless you, good father friar.
Now can I break my fast, dine, sup and sleep,
To him you follow'st! I will pay thy graces
And be no further harmful than in show.
Looks it not like the king?  mark it, Horatio.
Isidore's Servant	It is so.
Yet sell your face for five pence and 'tis dear.
How fares our cousin Hamlet?
Well, let us go.
[Aside to BOYET]  He may not by the yard.
To a most dangerous sea; the beauteous scarf
But even the mere necessities upon 't.
the guards are but slightly basted on neither: ere
As much unto my good lord chamberlain!
O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him lord;
Outliving beauty's outward, with a mind
To pass assurance of a dower in marriage
Please it your lordship, he hath put me off
So long as out of limit and true rule
Was not that Hector?
To burn this night with torches: know, my hearts,
Set on thy wife to observe: leave me, Iago:
We'll see these things effected to the full.
Till I can find occasion of revenge.
How darkly and how deadly dost thou speak!
Enter LADY MACBETH
If that her breath will mist or stain the stone,
And then a mind put in't, either our brags
Pick'd from the worm-holes of long-vanish'd days,
Why came not the slave back to me when I called him.
Ourself will mingle with society,
And to our sport.
Next, he's the governor of this country, and a man
god's gold,
How! a king's daughter?
I will be silent.
For let the gods so speed me as I love
yet.
But that the poor monster's in drink: an abominable monster!
prince and Claudio, as,--in love of your brother's
Thine own for ever, and I, thy Caliban,
Promises Britain peace and plenty.
As I hope
more, proceed accordingly.
But here an angel in a golden bed
I cannot hope
He hath songs for man or woman, of all sizes; no
Last, and as much containing as all these,
[Reads]  'Imprimis, it is agreed between the French
The severals and unhidden passages
ANTIPHOLUS
And Juliet bleeding, warm, and newly dead,
Magic of bounty! all these spirits thy power
By her, in his unlawful bed, he got
Like witless antics, one another meet,
And wear a golden sorrow.
Summon a parley; we will talk with him.
Of all opinion that grows rank in them
I had rather be alone.
With a sweet fellow to't?
excel thee in my rapier as much as thou didst me in
Now hath my soul brought forth her prodigy,
O, prenez misericorde! ayez pitie de moi!
How now! what art thou?
it, should dishearten his army.
ANTIPHOLUS
With all the learned council of the realm,
But we will plant some other in the throne,
Whilst all tongues cried 'God save thee,
Exit an Attendant
Both suffer under this complaint we bring,
My crack'd one to more care. Have with you, boys!
Madam, we'll dance.
Shall be lamented, pitied and excused
Give up your staff, sir, and the king his realm.
Ho, ho, ho! Coward, why comest thou not?
As thou hast done with me:--What, Jessica!--
My charms I'll break, their senses I'll restore,
They laboured to plant the rightful heir,
Mine eye's clear eye, my dear heart's dearer heart,
And not King Richard; thou most beauteous inn,
Fresher than e'er it was; and held for certain
Wounded it is, but with the eyes of a lady.
And, hark, what discord follows! each thing meets
do any man's heart good to hear me; I will roar,
never return to tell one.
Assay the power you have.
And lookest to command the prince and realm.
Shall lose his head for his presumption.
And serving you so long!
O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.
inconstant, and mutability, and variation: and her
But, hark, what noise?
Besides, they are our outward consciences,
O earth, which this blood drink'st revenge his death!
To leave this place. Albeit you have deserved
Are at our backs; and therefore hence amain.
Let Titan rise as early as he dare,
From Rome all season'd office and to wind
adheres together, that no dram of a scruple, no
The bastard brains with these my proper hands
Therefore, good mother,--I must can you so--
Be ever known to patience: my dear'st sister!
It shall be stony. York not our old men spares;
Like a right gipsy, hath, at fast and loose,
Ay, but these English are shrewdly out of beef.
We have scotch'd the snake, not kill'd it:
And, in the end being rescued, I have seen
By your firm promise: Gremio is out-vied.
By Lady Fortune; while our scene must play
That's worthily
Was,--were he evil used, he would outgo
Methinks, 'tis prize enough to be his son.
And ruminate himself, shall he be worshipp'd
melancholy as she is, that it cannot but turn him
lady, dart thy skill at me;
Mistress Anne Page? She has brown hair, and speaks
SONG.
blessedly lost wherein such preparation was gained:
Play the men.
I will wage against your gold, gold to it: my ring
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
That's sorry yet for thee.
Very ill.
perceive that a Jack guardant cannot office me from
The unity and married calm of states
Where's the Prince Dauphin? I have news for him.
Good Kate; I am a gentleman.
For three months; well.
Enter STANLEY
Play too, but so disgraced a part, whose issue
Be a child o' the time.
We and our wives and children all will fight
Mates, maid! how mean you that? no mates for you,
Henry the Seventh succeeding, truly pitying
Am that Belarius whom you sometime banish'd:
He fighteth as one weary of his life.
Her will, recoiling to her better judgment,
I do not think so: since he went into France, I
Thus play I in one person many people,
Like to a harvest-man that's task'd to mow
I am not a woman, to be touched with so many
Exeunt
Exeunt
And rear'd aloft the bloody battle-axe,
That thou wilt never render to me more!
So you grant pasture for me.
knees he would be even with me: I have good
Are hated most of those they did deceive,
What, have I pinch'd you, Signior Gremio?
Come, let's see the event.
Sir, if you spend word for word with me, I shall
Because I ever found them as myself.
If your life be saved, will you undertake to betray
Thanks to my lord.
Why, I think so: I am not such an ass but I can
He is not very tall; yet for his years he's tall:
fair on Friday as Helen is on Sunday. But what care
I warrant you, madam.
That could do no vengeance to me.
Un peu, madame.
If I had lost it,
life: which if I can save, so; if not, honour comes
urine. Lechery, sir, it provokes, and unprovokes;
Sleeps
Yet whether you accept our suit or no,
Must my sweet Nan present the Fairy Queen;
surrender of his will but offend us.
I mean, my lords, those powers that the queen
Shall lose me. What! in a town of war,
death, with the manner how she came to't bravely
To tread down fair respect of sovereignty,
Warwick may lose, that now hath won the day.
Dinner is ready, and your father stays.
A strange beginning: 'borrow'd majesty!'
Enter BENVOLIO and MERCUTIO
Leave me alone to woo him. Let's away,
Enter an AEdile
Or the reputed son of Coeur-de-lion,
Presented to my knife his throat: I took him;
Re-enter EDMUND
aboard, tender your persons to his presence,
will: rich honesty dwells like a miser, sir, in a
So dying love lives still:
Father, I may not wish the fortune thine;
Ay, boy, it's for love.
Falls in
With her prepared nails.
Wherein I see myself--
and go to buffets, for moving such a dish of
I see them! I see them! there's Best's son, the
Say you? nay, pray you, mark.
Enter ROSS
I'll have done presently.
SCENE III. The same. Before the palace.
That I in all despite might rail at him,
And say to all the world 'This was a man!'
And given my treasures and my rights of thee
rope's-end.'
Exeunt
She'll with the labour end.
Mercy itself and frees all faults.
Well, I have done: but yet,--
If you do hold the same intent wherein
Had she affections and warm youthful blood,
And will be partner of your weal or woe.
This is the ape of form, monsieur the nice,
Indeed his king, to be engaged in Wales,
But know I think and think I know most sure
In such a night
And have an hour of hearing; and, by'r lady,
Marcus Luccicos, is not he in town?
SCENE II. KING JOHN'S palace.
prave man.
Say, what beast, thou knave, thou?
Shall upon their children be.
They draw
Yes, my lord, yes; he at Philippi kept
Yonder man is carried to prison.
Why dost thou bend thine eyes upon the earth,
Of his return: he answer'd, 'Do not so;
I dare avouch it, sir: what, fifty followers?
Which of the two was daughter of the duke
While you perform your antic round:
Some base notorious knave, some scurvy fellow.
for a swine: 'tis pretty; it is well.
Our flesh and blood is grown so vile, my lord,
Macbeth does murder sleep', the innocent sleep,
In favour's like the work we have in hand,
I nothing but to please his fantasy.
you say honestly.
Or else he seeks out us.
My lord, a prize, a prize! here's the Lord Say,
The want is but to put those powers in motion
'Twixt me and one Baptista's daughter here:
We'll mingle our bloods together in the earth,
I do confess much of the hearing it but little of
Then, Isabel, live chaste, and, brother, die:
Possess'd with rumours, full of idle dreams,
Exeunt
Before the time be out? no more!
Hautboys
I wish you all the joy that you can wish;
A federary with her, and one that knows
I find in hardness, and do undertake
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, and DOUGLAS
Commend me to them,
on. Jove and my stars be praised! Here is yet a
To countenance this horror! Ring the bell.
And sounded all the depths and shoals of honour,
Yet he, of all the rest, I think, best loves ye.
Might you not know she would do as she has done,
cruelly. If ever thou beest mine, Kate, as I have a
Re-enter TITINIUS, with MESSALA
For saying so, there's gold:
And what with Owen Glendower's absence thence,
All cruels else subscribed: but I shall see
I think he'll hear me. Yet, to bite his lip
I will debate this matter at more leisure
Safer shall he be upon the sandy plains
To call a present court of parliament.
Exeunt
Where--O for pity!--we shall much disgrace
All to the senate-house: some news is come
I was the other day talking on the sea-bank with
Whose fault is this?
Kissing her
bill, warrant, quittance, or obligation, 'Armigero.'
So did he turn and over Suffolk's neck
Desire him to go in; trouble him no more
Enter CLEON, the governor of Tarsus, with DIONYZA, and others
There's some ill planet reigns:
You have been factious one against the other,
Which makes him prune himself, and bristle up
It was a vision fair and fortunate:
And that his friends by deputation could not
Good time, and live: but for the stock, Sir Thomas,
good lord! a noble gentleman 'tis, if he would not
He never did fall off, my sovereign liege,
The contents of this is the return of the duke: you
thy conscience flies out.
'Hey, Robin, jolly Robin,
Three months from twelve; then, let me see; the rate--
What ugly sights of death within mine eyes!
I commanded the sleeves should be cut out and
My griefs cry louder than advertisement.
Or to their own perdition.
Be bold in us: we'll follow where thou lead'st,
If not, the city being but of small defence,
Ay, leeks is good: hold you, there is a groat to
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
Through fair Verona; find those persons out
And drop into the rotten mouth of death.
A lion-fell, nor else no lion's dam;
A gentler scion to the wildest stock,
We shall be charged again. Whiles we have struck,
Enter GRUMIO
Which now suits with it. Whiles I threat, he lives:
Being captain of a pinnace, threatens more
do? when didst thou see me heave up my leg and make
Is't not a goodly presence?
For such a one we show'd 'em: if they smile,
O, would he did! and so perhaps he doth:
Enter MERCUTIO, BENVOLIO, Page, and Servants
A most unnoble swerving.
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
To take a tedious leave: thus losers part.
By this my issue's fail; and that gave to me
The traitor speak, and timorously confess
It is great morning. Come, away!--
Small time, but in that small most greatly lived
Come, I will fasten on this sleeve of thine:
But as you shake off one to take another;
That drag the tragic melancholy night;
Profane fellow
Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty,
De arm, madame.
Alack, and fie for shame!
Enter EUPHRONIUS, ambassador from MARK ANTONY
It does from childishness: can Fulvia die?
My lord?
Has forgot Britain.
Excuse me;
And each one to his office when he wakes.
Why I will fight with him upon this theme
No, Exeter, these graces challenge grace:
Of every beardless vain comparative,
Whom worthily you would have now succeed.
Enter KING JOHN, QUEEN ELINOR, BLANCH, the BASTARD, Lords, and forces
Hath puddled his clear spirit: and in such cases
Tendering our sister's honour and our own.
O'ercome with moss and baleful mistletoe:
testify your bounty, I thank you, you have testerned
So thou wilt woo; but else, not for the world.
Let housewifery appear: keep close, I thee command.
Most power to do most harm, least knowing ill;
SCENE III. The Grecian camp. Before Agamemnon's tent.
If well, he stepp'd before me, happily
With other gentlemen of good esteem,
Had not a show might countervail his worth.
Pyramus: I hope she will be brief.
They sit and mark
Hath given the dare to Caesar, and commands
Come, lay aside your stitchery; I must have you play
I sent you money, sir, to be your bail,
Exeunt
Will you be put in mind of his blind fortune,
Appear not like a guest.
O, do not do your cousin such a wrong.
Harp on it still shall I till heart-strings break.
Than bees that made 'em.
I may, and will, if she be so contented:
And bid her dry her weeping eyes therewith.
I think that one of them is hereabout,
You have no judgment, niece: Helen
Letters should not be known; riches, poverty,
Not Hermia but Helena I love:
Hath my poor boy done aught but well,
The world's large spaces cannot parallel.
I must change arms at home, and give the distaff
Against the churches; though the yesty waves
marries Aliena, shall you marry her: I know into
So are a number more.
And yet she'll kneel and pray; I have seen her do't.
Flourish. The King and his train enter the town
and is hanged betimes in the morning, may sleep the
The object and the pleasure of mine eye,
countries in her.
Yea, and much better blood than his or thine.
Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave the foe
Whate'er I forge to feed his brain-sick fits,
and uttered such a deal of stinking breath because
Why, that's the lady; all the world desires her;
You have my father's house,--But, what? we are friends.
Give me my boots, I say; saddle my horse.
I must indeed; and therefore came I hither.
Were all too little to content and please,
Hang mournful epitaphs and do all rites
Secure from worldly chances and mishaps!
That he will neither know how to maintain it,
Equal in lustre, were now best, now worst,
Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.
for a day of kings' entreaties a mother should not
He sends ye not to murder me for this
That Slender, though well landed, is an idiot;
Ye men of Cyprus, let her have your knees.
When she is gone. Then open not thy lips:
By thrusting out a torch from yonder tower;
opposite. Now, to seem to affect the malice and
There is a change upon you.
The faiths of men ne'er stained with revolt;
'Tis hard to reconcile.
Made you no more offence but what you speak of?
I strike quickly, being moved.
To-day the lords you talk of are beheaded.
him soundly, sir: well, was it fit for a servant to
Which by us shall blessed be;
And the best half should have return'd to him,
Find what thou want'st by free and offer'd light. Come.
mistress and be happy rivals in Bianco's love, to
[Aside]  O, you are well tuned now!
I prithee, hear me speak.
Of this most grievous guilty murder done!
It were a better death than die with mocks,
I will be bold with time and your attention:
How durst thy tongue move anger to our face?
To sport would be as tedious as to work;
I'll plant Plantagenet, root him up who dares:
Exeunt
to Sir Toby.
My mind presageth happy gain and conquest.
How much I was a braggart. When I told you
SCENE I. Before the castle.
Exit PHILOSTRATE
Like man new made.
The jewels of our father, with wash'd eyes
But, touch'd with human gentleness and love,
pluck the lined crutch from thy old limping sire,
That no particular scandal once can touch
What should I think on't?
you and pray with you.
the time and outward habit of encounter; a kind of
Richer than sea and land? O, theft most base,
make my eyes look red, that it may be thought I have
So long in his unlucky Irish wars
Of my word, I have written to effect;
I owe the most, in money and in love,
The sacred honour of himself, his queen's,
so doth the hound his master, the ape his keeper,
And tragical, my noble lord, it is;
And that same sword-and-buckler Prince of Wales,
trust it will grow to a most prosperous perfection.
Wrought he not well that painted it?
More than my body's parting with my soul!
As violently as hasty powder fired
What most he should dislike seems pleasant to him;
Like an old tale still, which will have matter to
And future ages groan for this foul act;
To PHILEMON
Lies festering in his shroud; where, as they say,
I do conceive.
Have power to raise such love in mine,
improvident jealousy? my wife hath sent to him; the
And in thy hateful lungs, yea, in thy maw, perdy,
Good-morrow, cousin.
Struck me, that thought to stay him, overboard,
master, lose thy service, and, in losing thy
Hath too much mangled; whose repair and franchise
Or cut his wezand with thy knife. Remember
There is no composition in these news
In this my light deliverance, I have spoke
I then moved you,
With burden of our armour here we sweat.
Being tasted, slays all senses with the heart.
They cast their caps up and carouse together
And fix most firm thy resolution.
I'll keep you company.
Sweet lady, let me rake it from the earth.
I pray thee, pretty York, who told thee this?
With toss-pots still had drunken heads,
York, if thou meanest well, I greet thee well.
Digest this letter of the cardinal's?
Exit
Warwick, my son, the comfort of my age,
Well, to the rest:
And watch'd the time to shoot.
I am the Prince of Wales; and think not, Percy,
And with a puissant and a mighty power
Touching King Henry's oath and your succession.
starveling. Tut! there are other Trojans that thou
Put him to choler straight: he hath been used
It hath not appeared.
And we are for the dark.
For, I believe, they are portentous things
Upon this present action.
This was her first remembrance from the Moor:
What, hoa! Got pless your house here!
I should have known no less.
My name hath touch'd your ears it is Menenius.
Soliciting his wife: ay, that's the way
To do my duty to my sovereign:
'Tis true; she rides me and I long for grass.
seek him; I'll apprehend him: abominable villain!
By and by is easily said.
I do beg your good will in this case.
Be advised;
Ay, but why?
Strew good luck, ouphes, on every sacred room:
Cannot make better note.
majestically, both in word and matter, hang me up by
The outward composition of his body.
Exit
And yet, in faith, it is not; his present want
What should the wars do with these jigging fools?
Nor thou, nor he, are any sons of mine;
It was the nightingale, and not the lark,
There is my pledge; accept it, Somerset.
Good morrow, both.
You may wear her in title yours: but, you know,
That thou art malcontent? I will provide thee.
Appear unkinglike.
I met the ravin lion when he roar'd
But by and by rude fishermen of Corinth
you should have been put together with so mortal a
While pride is fasting in his wantonness!
With that keen appetite that he sits down?
Go know of Cassio where he supp'd to-night.
From miserable slumber I awaked.
Our helpful ship was splitted in the midst;
He will be found like Brutus, like himself.
If a bloody coxcomb be a hurt, you have hurt me: I
With sweet rehearsal of my morning's dream.
And in thy need such comfort come to thee
Even now we heard the news: ah, could'st thou fly!
When he looks out in an ungrateful shape!--
Than can my ears that tragic history.
If Somerset be unworthy of the place,
Alas, now, pray you,
'Tis Troilus' fault: come, come, to field with him.
And then to have a wretched puling fool,
What should he be?
Where lie my maiden weeds; by whose gentle help
Young gentlemen would be as sad as night,
to drink small beer: all the realm shall be in
'orld, I warrant you sall find, in the comparisons
That what you speak is in your conscience wash'd
Why, a horse.
Thou lily-liver'd boy. What soldiers, patch?
That's a deed thou'lt die for.
Boult, take you the marks of her, the colour of her
Till that the conquering wine hath steep'd our sense
Prithee, keep up thy quillets. There's a poor piece
My lord, I'll tell you; that self bill is urged,
should end it.
For, boy, however we do praise ourselves,
As true thou tell'st me, when I say I love her;
Cyprus black as e'er was crow;
A plague upon him! muffled! he can say nothing of
To those that make us both,--fair ladies, you:
Scratch my head Peaseblossom. Where's Mounsieur Cobweb?
I'ld say I had eyes again!
Oft have I seen the haughty cardinal,
And Helena of Athens look thou find:
SCENE II. Fife. Macduff's castle.
more said? he is good and fair. Is Sir John
custom-shrunk.
The setting sun, and music at the close,
PROLOGUE
For I am he am born to tame you Kate,
Than I have in this ring: 'twas mine, 'twas Helen's,
That Lewis of France is sending over masquers
'Twere good, yours did; for, sir, to tell you plain,
And his kissing is as full of sanctity as the touch
There's matter in't indeed, if he be angry.
Restrain in me the cursed thoughts that nature
sweet sorrow,
Which the most precious square of sense possesses;
you deny your griefs to your friend.
On my soul, I'll speak but truth.
Thou gavest to Cassio.
The greatest wrong of all. He lost a wife
because the unconquered soul of Cade is fled.
Look here, upon this picture, and on this,
But why did he swear he would come this morning, and
To follow in a house where twice so many
Patroclus ta'en or slain, and Palamedes
Enter EXETER, BEDFORD, and WESTMORELAND
dagger with a master of fence; three veneys for a
Is she a Capulet?
I love Aliena; say with her that she loves me;
Nay, I will give thee a kiss: now pray thee, love, stay.
Pray you, lock hand in hand; yourselves in order set
No longer staying but to give the mother
The portraiture of his: I'll court his favours.
which of my bad parts didst thou first fall in love with me?
Of the salt deep,
The uglier seem the clouds that in it fly.
Exit BARDOLPH
Madam, my lord is gone, for ever gone.
Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts.
I'll bury thee in a triumphant grave;
Who m eets us here?  my niece Plantagenet
Enter BERTRAM, the COUNTESS of Rousillon, HELENA, and LAFEU, all in black
Dies
To the death, my lord.
Mistake me not; I speak but as I find.
If not, that, I being queen, you bow like subjects,
And buried once, why not upon my head?
I am a poor fall'n man, unworthy now
Mark but the badges of these men, my lords,
And Montague our topmost; what of him?
Now crack thy lungs, and split thy brazen pipe:
shortened, for she has been too long a talking of,
Likely in time to bless a regal throne.
And made a brine-pit with our bitter tears?
Not doing 't and being done: he, most humane
Had I this cheek
Exit
Beat on a crown, the treasure of thy heart;
Rather than envy you.
I dare be sworn I think that he is honest.
Therefore the moon, the governess of floods,
I'll do any thing now that is virtuous; but I
Come in, come in: I'll go get a fire.
That reason wonder may diminish,
Exit Boy
Shall have a high reward, and he his life?
lousy, pragging knave, Pistol, which you and
To do me business in the veins o' the earth
That gave thee life, when well he might have
Look to thyself, thou art in jeopardy.
Killing care and grief of heart
If Marcus did not name the word of hands!
hinder not the honour of his design: let him fetch
Go, go, cheer up thy hungry-starved men;
That is my office, for my father's sake.
goes,--mark you that; but if the water come to him
Mowbray, impartial are our eyes and ears:
'Tis good we do so.
No, boy.
By an Athenian eunuch to the harp.'
No I'll be sworn; unless you call three fingers on
Puppet? why so? ay, that way goes the game.
I shall not be his wife.
By this great clatter, one of greatest note
O, dismiss this audience, and I shall tell you more.
love, remember: and there is pansies. that's for thoughts.
He will not know what all but he do know:
Well.
My royal father, cheer these noble lords
Exeunt
I prithee now, sweet son, as thou hast said
Such I account thy love. Art thou afeard
I fear thou'lt once more come again for ransom.
Ah, woe is me for Gloucester, wretched man!
Enter TROILUS
Speak, old AEgeon, if thou be'st the man
Enter a Soldier
Absolved him with an axe.
Lord of his fortunes he salutes thee, and
Are my chests fill'd up with extorted gold?
So that, in these ten thousand they have lost,
We will stay your leisure.
hole in hell were hot enough for him? This is the
Henry Lord Scroop of Masham, and the third,
Enter PAGE
That which none else can utter. By this marriage,
Your aery buildeth in our aery's nest.
What, what? first praise me and again say no?
What is it
swearing 'Lay by' and spent with crying 'Bring in;'
We'll keep him here: then what is that to him?
On the catastrophe and heel of pastime,
him, if there be any law in Illyria: though I
been truth, sir.
Knocks go and come; God's vassals drop and die;
Know his gross patchery, love him, feed him,
He is gone happy, and has left me rich:
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Exeunt
As wealth is burden of my wooing dance,
Exit with the body
Most venerable worth, did I devotion.
Razing the characters of your renown,
For then, and not till then, he felt himself,
Say that she frown, I'll say she looks as clear
their wit. I will bid thee draw, as we do the
Proteus, I thank thee for thine honest care;
Gaze where you should, and that will clear your sight.
So season'd with your faithful love to me.
Coriolanus, that they are in a ripe aptness to take
But first begs pardon: will you sterner be
I never came within these abbey-walls,
Here's much to do with hate, but more with love.
Good sentences and well pronounced.
Found in the pocket of the slain Roderigo;
Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of justice
Maine, Blois, Poictiers, and Tours, are won away,
Rouse him: make after him, poison his delight,
To-morrow to the field.
I think her old familiar is asleep:
The story of your loves discovered:
All will be well.
Rather than rob me of the people's hearts!
Falling in, after falling out, may make them three.
Aside
Here she is now: swear the oaths now to her that
No chance may shake it. Give me grace to lay
That churchman bears a bounteous mind indeed,
And if no gentleman, why then no arms.
Even what it please my lord, that shall become him.
Wherefore's this noise?
And then, from hour to hour, we rot and rot;
Is this the Lord Talbot, uncle Gloucester,
The poet's eye, in fine frenzy rolling,
Peace, I say.
Due to the Moor my lord.
advertisement to a proper maid in Florence, one
The gods be good to us! Come, masters, let's home.
Lord Thaliard from Antiochus is welcome.
Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath
His answer was 'The worse:' of Gloucester's treachery,
But as the unthought-on accident is guilty
Even like a man new haled from the rack,
That no man shall have private conference,
My lord?
Is straight and slender and as brown in hue
Lepidus, let him speak:
Through tatter'd clothes small vices do appear;
To meet your father and the Scottish power,
I'll hang my head and perish.
Your fortunes are alike.
If charnel-houses and our graves must send
Be my retentive enemy, my gaol?
I will lay a plot to try that; and we will yet have
Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame and
And then I will proclaim young Henry king.
Enter GLOUCESTER aloft, between two Bishops. CATESBY returns
Know you this ring? this ring was his of late.
Without our grace, our love, our benison.
Because what follows is pure innocence.
Upon the like devotion as yourselves,
And Antenorides, with massy staples
you shall hear music and see the gentleman that you asked for.
Skirmish again
And 'twixt them rushes; underneath whose arm
Fordo its own life: 'twas of some estate.
Happy, indeed, as we have spent the day.
first propose: his highness hath promised me to do
That e'er was heard or read!
ANTIPHOLUS
Flat burglary as ever was committed.
O blessed bond of board and bed!
And razure of oblivion. Give me your hand,
What is a traitor?
Now Warwick, tell me, even upon thy conscience,
Still going?
To overbulk us all.
I have sent to seek him, and to find the body.
best lord; I would make thee my lady.
when his wife was dead, I blush to say it, he won
Herald shews him another paper
And word it, prithee, piteously: hence, Mardian,
tell you how.
By all your good leaves, gentlemen; here I'll make
One nick-name for her purblind son and heir,
I prithee, vent thy folly somewhere else: Thou
Must be the scene of mirth; to cough and spit,
Your sword upon a woman?
I'll attend your lordship.
Some twenty years.
Ithaca full of moths. Come; I would your cambric
But list to me, my Humphrey, my sweet duke:
Use mercy to them all. For us, dear uncle,
been the finder out of this secret, it would not
Widow! a pox o' that! How came that widow in?
My damned son, which thy two sweet sons smother'd.
But is a-weary of thy common sight,
I named my knell, whilst I sit meditating
Have strain'd to appear thus: if one jot beyond
Myself the man i' the moon do seem to be.
In Richard's time,--what do you call the place?--
As are of better person than myself,
Hear me one word.
Reignier, her father, to the king of France
Yes, sir; but anger hath a privilege.
Why did you wish me milder? would you have me
that writ it had played Pyramus and hanged himself
How doth the prince, and my young son of York?
I will.
melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples,
It may be right; but you are i' the wrong
This is a thing that Angelo knows not; for he this
O, widow Dido! ay, widow Dido.
Wilt please you go, my lord?
hath not a glimpse of, nor any man an attaint but he
A little touch of Harry in the night.
Ah, let me live in prison all my days;
May stand with ours, this day to be conjoin'd
Will ye be gone?
Have I my pillow left unpress'd in Rome,
Where is the Duke of Norfolk, gentle Warwick?
O, God! a beast, that wants discourse of reason,
Be Alcibiades your plague, you his,
Till I have set a glory to this hand,
Gives us more palm in beauty than we have,
Exit BARDOLPH
Exeunt OBERON, TITANIA, and train
And tempt not yet the brushes of the war.
Alarums. Enter KING RICHARD III
'Twould drink the cup and all.
the benefit of sleep, and do the effects of
The wild waves whist,
I'll bear your logs the while: pray, give me that;
I think no less. Dost thou not wish in heart
How he hath drunk, he cracks his gorge, his sides,
To add the death of you.
I think there is not in the world either malice or
I know the shape of's leg: this is his hand;
Scant not my cups; and make as much of me
Alack, sir, I am sand-blind; I know you not.
Who knows if Donalbain be with his brother?
of a good conscience.
Unto his dastard foemen is betray'd.
presence still smile, dear my sweet, I prithee.'
tongues into those wounds and speak for them; so, if
And so I am awake. Poor wretches that depend
capricious poet, honest Ovid, was among the Goths.
Most worthy sir, you therein throw away
There is no stir or walking in the streets;
Go presently and take this ring with thee,
conspectuities glean out of this character, if I be
That my youth suffer'd. My story being done,
is in the fields, it pleaseth me well; but in
No grace? no womanhood? Ah, beastly creature!
Under that's above me.
You would entreat me rather go than stay.
And be her sense but as a monument,
Or thou goest to the orange or mill.
To our proceeding bids me tell you this;
Deposed his nephew Richard, Edward's son,
Go prick thy face, and over-red thy fear,
When vantage like a pair of twins appear'd,
Villain, I say, knock me at this gate
in the fool that uses it. Go, make you ready.
Enter JAQUES
Whither?
Some entertainment for them in their tents.
What best is boded me to mischief! I
Exeunt
That I have been thus pleasant with you both.
Think not the king did banish thee,
But safer triumph is this funeral pomp,
And sleep and snore, and rend apparel out;--
The other to enjoy by rage and war:
fiend. 'Budge not,' says my conscience.
Nay, let them follow:
Knowing how hardly I can brook abuse?
[Aside]  Must thou needs stand for a villain in
cowl-staff? look, how you drumble! Carry them to
But, I protest, he had the chain of me,
O, I will to him and pluck out his eyes!
Your colt's tooth is not cast yet.
He hates our sacred nation, and he rails,
with me till they meet together.
And you too, sir.
Britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and plenty.'
SCENE I. Milan. An abbey.
They all stand ceremoniously looking on TIMON
The music of the spheres! List, my Marina.
What may befall him, to his harm and ours:
Enter a Servant
Thus far, with rough and all-unable pen,
courtier's hands are perfumed with civet.
We will spare for no wit, I warrant you; here's
you are to depart, I am come to advise you, comfort
Give him direction for this merry bond,
Your daughter, whom she bore in hand to love
The peril of our curses light on thee
And come, Egeus; you shall go with me,
You have heard of my poor services, i' the love
Enter BRABANTIO, RODERIGO, and Officers with torches and weapons
Where have I been! Nay, how now! where are you?
I now name to you; and with speed so pace
Until his ink were temper'd with Love's sighs;
I'll have them sleep on cushions in my tent.
Demetrius loves your fair: O happy fair!
And many such-like 'As'es of great charge,
Refusing her grand hests, she did confine thee,
Can set the duke up in despite of me.
And in the very pangs of death he cried,
Besides, I will be sworn these ears of mine
The estate of my poor queen. Leave me alone;
The heart of brothers govern in our loves
[Aside to NESTOR]  And how his silence drinks up
An honest tale speeds best being plainly told.
Who hath relieved you?
But where there is true friendship, there needs none.
Embrace him, dear Thaisa; this is he.
Courage and comfort! all shall yet go well.
That gives sweet tidings of the sun's uprise?
Than if you had at leisure known of this.
Straight, how 'tis like to go.
SCENE III. An ante-chamber in the palace.
When the king knows my truth.
Where hadst thou it?
Enter EGEUS, HERMIA, LYSANDER, and DEMETRIUS
Of his heart's meteors tilting in his face?
Do't, knight: I'll write thee a challenge: or I'll
Lie where the light foam the sea may beat
Was carried towards Corinth, as we thought.
Lie at my mercy all mine enemies:
melancholy out of a song, as a weasel sucks eggs.
Weeping again the king my father's wreck,
To sour your happiness, I must report
constancy put to sea, that their business might be
With a hey, and a ho, and a hey nonino
And yonder is the wolf that makes this spoil.
Look forward on the journey you shall go.
Where's Richard gone?
Knowing I loved my books, he furnish'd me
Which mannerly devotion shows in this;
Upon the wasted building, suddenly
I think it is in Macedon where Alexander is porn. I
And for Cassio, let me be his undertaker: you
Here, Peter Quince.
What country, friends, is this?
Doing the honour of thy lordliness
How likest thou this picture, Apemantus?
As to peace-parted souls.
False king! why hast thou broken faith with me,
Rather than make unprofited return.
Dies
Her salt tears fell from her, and soften'd the stones;
Run reeking o'er the lives of men, as if
A certain queen to Caesar in a mattress.
For God doth know how many now in health
There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; pray,
out o' the band: I think I have his letter in my pocket.
The man that once did sell the lion's skin
Murderous to the senses? That confirms it home:
Yes, my conscience, he did us great good.
If one good deed in all my life I did,
Enter a third Servingman. The first meets him
More relative than this: the play 's the thing
The extreme parts of time extremely forms
Upon the stroke of four.
My lord is not my lord; nor should I know him,
'Tis meet that lucky ruler be employ'd;
No, that same wicked bastard of Venus that was begot
Leave off to wonder why I drew you hither,
Re-enter Clown
And seized upon their towns and provinces.
Than when she lived indeed; then shall he mourn,
like a strong distillation, with stinking clothes
With drunken spilth of wine, when every room
And swear with me, as, with the woful fere
That I do hate thee and love Helena.
The article of my oath.
Can sleep so soundly as the wretched slave,
[Aside]  Well, I could reply:
The state of man in divers functions,
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
Come on, then,
Yet, to recover them, would lose my life.
And prove it in thy feeling. Heaven mend all!
If voluble and sharp discourse be marr'd,
What, what, what? ill luck, ill luck?
Was cried incomparable; and the ensuing night
Good things of day begin to droop and drowse;
Death is my son-in-law, Death is my heir;
English cudgel: you find it otherwise; and
Which not to have done I think had been in me
What say'st thou, man, before dead Henry's corse?
And love thee after. One more, and this the last:
To those of mine!
I can live no longer by thinking.
How now! where's that mongrel?
Take from my heart all thankfulness! The gods
I would to God my heart were flint, like Edward's;
A strange fellow here
That shapes man better; and they follow him,
Exit Launcelot
She's too hard for you at pricks, sir: challenge her to bowl.
Best half of our affair.
Unblinding him
hose, and you, being in love, cannot see to put on your hose.
And there an end. But what say you to Thursday?
Whilst we were wandering with the antipodes,
What news, what news, in this our tottering state?
Like a kind host, the Dauphin and his powers:
Exit
herself. Be happy, lady; for you are like an
Dismask'd, their damask sweet commixture shown,
The benefit thereof is always granted
When expect you them?
No.
All length is torture: since the torch is out,
Exeunt MARK ANTONY, QUEEN CLEOPATRA, and DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS
But in the less foul profanation.
Poor heart, adieu! I pity thy complaining.
And in thy sons, fair slips of such a stock.
And by him seal up thy mind;
Have at thee, coward!
Weep, wretched man, I'll aid thee tear for tear;
Enter SIR RICHARD VERNON
full ripe: now we speak upon our cue, and our voice
Je pense que vous etes gentilhomme de bonne qualite.
Why, lamb! why, lady! fie, you slug-a-bed!
And I will wish thee never more to dance,
should thunder as it did before, I know not
Our lack is nothing but our leave; Macbeth
Yet it shall come from me to do thee good.
That I may live to say, The dog is dead!
And will return to Venice. Hence, avaunt!
buried her grandam; to fast, like one that takes
What's your grace's will?
It is a life that I have desired: I will thrive.
Lend me your hand.
And Caesar's spirit, ranging for revenge,
Else the Puck a liar call;
I will not say so, for fear I should be faced out of
Fair Portia's counterfeit! What demi-god
take an ill advantage of his assence: you are undone.
When he had done, some followers of mine own,
And they expect it from me.
Lucentio is your name; of whence, I pray?
My lord constable, the armour that I saw in your tent
Alas, what ignorant sin have I committed?
physicians,
Duke of Anjou and Maine, yet is he poor,
Like a remorseful pardon slowly carried,
I beseech you, punish me not with your hard
A lightning before death: O, how may I
Exeunt
There let him stand, and rave, and cry for food;
An evil soul producing holy witness
Now powers from home and discontents at home
Than those that walk and wot not what they are.
some scholar would conjure her; for certainly, while
Breed scrupulous faction: the hated, grown to strength,
SCENE I. A desert place.
What torch is yond, that vainly lends his light
And mar the seeds within! Lift up thy looks:
[Aside]  Ay, and as good as Saturninus may.
This look of thine will hurl my soul from heaven,
The royal banner, and all quality,
No, rather I abjure all roofs, and choose
Why, what a monstrous fellow art thou, thus to rail
I'll lay my life, with my disposer Cressida.
To RICHMOND
'Tis well borne up.
stands the man; good; if the man go to this water,
No, good-faced sir; no, sweet sir.
The lives of those that he did lead to fight
But that thou interrupt'st our merriment.
honesty to acquaint the king withal, I would not
When in that moment, so it came to pass,
How far 'tis thither. If one of mean affairs
Gentleman, God save thee.
I Pompey am,--
In my heart's love hath no man than yourself:
Abominable Gloucester, guard thy head;
Is to remove proud Somerset from the king,
Now, as I live, I will. My nobler friends,
But though they jump not on a just account,--
And you the mutinous members; for examine
Put but a little water in a spoon,
Flourish. Exeunt
'Zounds, where thou wilt, lad; I'll make one; an I
may find the young Romeo?
When by the Archbishop of Canterbury
Come, let us go. These things, come thus to light,
These were his very words.
Cries out upon the name of Salisbury!
Thy heinous, manifest, and many treasons,
Exit
Among the buzzing pleased multitude;
places: for these fellows of infinite tongue, that
With very much content, my lord; and I wish it
Here he comes.
With my well saying!
An we do not, it is pity of our lives.
At home, my lord.
A proclaim'd prize! Most happy!
Exeunt
By so much fills their hearts with deadly hate.
Wafting his eyes to the contrary and falling
That with his name the mothers still their babes?
One step I have advanced thee; if thou dost
Enter, on one side, DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before; on the other, ELBOW, and Officers with POMPEY
devoured many a gentleman of your house: I promise
The leafy shelter that abuts against
be not too rough for some that know little but
Who undertakes you to your end.
An heretic, an arch one, Cranmer; one
modesty as cunning. I remember, one said there
No, good sweet sir; no, I beseech you, sir: I have
day.
Whoever charges on his forward breast,
Enter THAISA
Those that slew thy virgin knight;
Due but to one and crowned with one crest.
Hang it!
My lord your son made me to think of this;
Possess it, I'll make answer:
Cut thread and thrum;
Re-enter CHARMIAN and Messenger
Where now his son's like a glow-worm in the night,
As infinite as man may undergo--
By your prescription: but this top-proud fellow,
Of your commissions.
Never?
What would you have? Your gentleness shall force
Old John of Gaunt is grievous sick, my lord,
But here comes Antony.
To look into the bottom of my place:
with bitter words. Why look you so upon me?
Like wrath in death and envy afterwards;
Or less than a just pound, be it but so much
Set a huge mountain 'tween my heart and tongue!
Heir to the crown; meaning indeed his house,
But amongst honest women.
And I am lowted by a traitor villain
To raze one title of your honour out:
And as wondrous affable and as bountiful
It is against my will; for I desire
This ravenous tiger, this accursed devil;
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
This is the cardinal's doing, the king-cardinal:
I met the duke yesterday and had much question with
pound, the last subsidy.
cunning to be great, that could restore this cripple
Be not so holy-cruel: love is holy;
Sirs, what's o'clock?
Enter JAQUES, Lords, and Foresters
We were, fair queen,
That he was fain to seal on Cupid's name.
Falstaff: him keep with, the rest banish. And tell
Slow in pursuit, but match'd in mouth like bells,
Doth my lord call?
Well said, noble woman?
And little of this great world can I speak,
cannot tell how to term it.
Hath Britain all the sun that shines? Day, night,
Nettled and stung with pismires, when I hear
Thou out of heaven's benediction comest
wine: but if thou be'st not an ass, I am a youth
What's here? a cup, closed in my true love's hand?
And otherwise will Henry ne'er presume.
Cassius,
Alas, poor souls, it grieved my heart to hear what
Noble philosopher, your company.
the matter. These good fellows will bring thee
I told him that your father was at Venice,
You shall find me apt enough to that, sir, an you
Dead, if you will; but not to be his wife,
While I with self-same kindness welcome thine.
cozen-germans that has cozened all the hosts of
Thy life is dear; for all that life can rate
Bring the strong poison that I bought of him.
Of your mere own: all these are portable,
Is daughter to this famous Duke of Milan,
What says she to my valour?
Why dost thou stay?
Or at every sentence end,
Throws the meat,  and c. about the stage
She must lie here on mere necessity.
Why that's my spirit!
'the croaking raven doth bellow for revenge.'
How is't with me, when every noise appals me?
Exit
at him. I know my lady will strike him: if she do,
But knows he thinks that he knows Isabel's.
To me you cannot reach, you play the spaniel,
Concerning this, sir,--O  well-painted passion!--
shape of two countries at once, as, a German from
a man! if thou dost perform, confound thee, for
Till I torment thee for this injury.
But all hoods make not monks.
Know you that Friar Lodowick that she speaks of?
Where he sits crowned in his master's spite.
'Twas a good lady, 'twas a good lady: we may pick a
Conjures the wandering stars, and makes them stand
No, not for Venice.
Ere break the smallest parcel of this vow.
By all the everlasting gods, I'll go!
Thou bid'st me beg: this begging is not strange.
I shall pay dear.
What! look upon my brother: both your pardons,
To cut his throat i' the church.
And take his bottle from him: when that's gone
To cudgel you and make you take the hatch,
be a jewel that I have purchased at an infinite
To stop their marches 'fore we are inflamed.
The children live, whose parents thou hast
For pax of little price.
the streets, and at every corner have them kiss. Away!
We must give up to Diomedes' hand
Upon the wounds his body bears, which show
Against thy deity.
He may a little grieve at.
Frighted each other? why should he follow?
Follow such creatures. That you may, fair lady,
For it is thine.
Thanks you for this great care: I stood i' the level
To kindle cowards and to steel with valour
Enter HECTOR
She swounds to see them bleed.
O despiteful love! unconstant womankind!
Will you take eggs for money?
A lover of thy drum, hater of love.
In every thing but in loving Benedick.
They are then excused, my lord, when they see not
To ask of whence you are. Report it.
Why, I will.
Stand, and go back.
To Edmund earl of Gloucester; seek him out
They shall no more prevail than we give way to.
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Antipholus of Ephesus
The first that there did greet my stranger soul,
One good woman in ten, madam; which is a purifying
redeliver our authorities there
ta'en from me, and these detestable things put upon
'Tis very like.
Your grace hath laid the odds o' the weaker side.
Farewell, revolted fair! and, Diomed,
If then we shall shake off our slavish yoke,
Against an oracle.
O'ertopping woman's power. Madam, you do me wrong:
That lend a tyrannous and damned light
Let senses rule; the word is 'Pitch and Pay:'
Go, call my men, and let us straight to him;
But for my duty to your ladyship.
For I have neither wit, nor words, nor worth,
No princely commendations to my king?
Lead on to some foul issue: we all kneel.
What is the reason of this terrible summons?
In warlike march these greens before your town,
My daughter takes his going grievously.
She's there, and she is yours.
Becomes a fear, as being o'erpower'd: therefore
In you, which I account his beyond all talents,
This dilatory sloth and tricks of Rome.
grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I
Madam, I have a secret to reveal.
That I was shipp'd at sea, I well remember,
Cry within: 'Help! help!'
Her mother liveth yet, can testify
Even to their ships.
Cold news, Lord Somerset: but God's will be done!
Not she: nor doth she tempt: but it is I
To mitigate the justice of thy plea;
The walls of thy dear honour, keep unshaked
Belike you mean to make a puppet of me.
himself most feelingly personated. I can write very
Persuades me it is otherwise: howe'er it be,
And all the embossed sores and headed evils,
I gave thee mine before thou didst request it:
Hie therefore, Robin, overcast the night;
O, I do not like that paying back; 'tis a double labour.
What work is here! Charmian, is this well done?
Hume, if you take not heed, you shall go near
To die with lengthen'd shame.
Come hither, fellow.
'Tis but a little way that I can bring you;
A prayer upon her grave. I'll not seek far--
Despairing died.
For has not the divine Apollo said,
For sorrow ends not when it seemeth done.
Rule in this realm, and the gored state sustain.
'lady, lady, lady.'
Captain, I will.
Good lords, make all the speedy haste you may.
By the name of most kind hostess; and shut up
I will subscribe for thee, thou art both knave and fool.
The grief is fine, full, perfect, that I taste,
Must yield to such inevitable shame
entertainest my love, let it appear in thy smiling;
With full and holy rite be minister'd,
Is severally in all. Let's quit this ground,
From off the rock Tarpeian never more
It seems to me most strange that men should fear;
'Tis said, man; and farewell.
Exit
And talk'd apace; and in that hour, my lord,
No blame belongs to thee.
Thou dost belie her, and thou art a devil.
Is the next way to draw new mischief on.
Stay, gentle Helena; hear my excuse:
There's honour in the theft.
Whose enmity he flung aside, and breasted
Through the velvet leaves the wind,
The nobility think scorn to go in leather aprons.
Is he pursued?
witness of this: therefore I beseech your majesty,
For treason executed in our late king's days?
For the embracements even of Jove himself;
From one bad thing to worse; not frenzy, not
Bring him our purposes: and so farewell.
Ye favourites of a king: are we not high?
And bide the penance of each three years' day.
Three civil brawls, bred of an airy word,
Charm ache with air and agony with words:
I'll to him; he is hid at Laurence' cell.
By and by.
SCENE I. Before the Tower.
I am not of that feather to shake off
Bethought me what was past, what might succeed.
O, I am ignorance itself in this!
With wit or steel?
Which ten times faster glide than the sun's beams,
Enter NYM, BARDOLPH, PISTOL, and Boy
Soldiers, away with him!
How young Leander cross'd the Hellespont.
Be patient; for I will not let him stir
And give them repetition to the life.
behind you, sir, like an evil angel, and bid you
And I the house of York.
Margaret.
Lest they desire upon this push to trouble
father charged you in his will to give me good
[Reads]  'Thy mistress, Pisanio, hath played the
Look you, here comes my mistress' page.
That wash'd his father's fortunes forth of France,
Convey your pleasures in a spacious plenty,
What's to be done?
Their savage eyes turn'd to a modest gaze
My lord?
Give me your hand. Art thou learned?
whore!' Why, is not this a lamentable thing,
honest man, look you, and soon dashed. He is a
Pawn'd with the other, for the poor rude world
The love that lean'd on them as slippery too,
Yet writers say, as in the sweetest bud
Or can conceal his hunger till he famish?
ailest thou, man?
The winds were love-sick with them; the oars were silver,
Pales in the flood with men, with wives and boys,
Dash him to pieces!
Enough, I am engaged; I will challenge him. I will
And the wind brings it from the Capitol.
He never would have stay'd in France so long.
And yet he rides it out. Now please you wit.
thoughts of your heart with the looks of an empress;
Of kerns and gallowglasses is supplied;
would have it at the Lady Hero's chamber-window.
and he will smile upon her, which will now be so
And to do that well craves a kind of wit:
I have follow'd thee to this; but we do lance
Stay, madam; here is more belongs to her;
seem to do that fearfully which you commit
For so your doctors hold it very meet,
For truth to o'er-peer. Rather than fool it so,
Or shall we give the signal to our rage
She was of Tyrus the king's daughter,
Away with her; go, bear her hence perforce.
I'll tell thee, ere thou ask it me again.
They use to write it on the top of letters: 'twill
It were but necessary you were waked,
Which if you shall refuse, when I am dead,
[To BRUTUS]  Be that you seem, truly your
Sure he is by this, or will be presently: but,
ANTIPHOLUS
have lost, the disgrace we have digested; which in
Madam, with all my heart.
If that be jest, then all the rest was so.
Would have flung from him, but, indeed, he could not:
Come, you shall have Trent turn'd.
Which blood, like sacrificing Abel's, cries,
And you, good uncle, banish all offence:
And for these bitter tears, which now you see
And none but he, to marry with Nan Page.
any image of offence done to any man.
A far more glorious star thy soul will make
But, soft you, let me be: pluck up, my heart, and
They sale of offices and towns in France,
Farewell, my lord: what you shall know meantime
Torment me for my love's forgetfulness!
Should from yond cloud speak divine things,
Some men must love my lady and some Joan.
I am very glad of it: I'll plague him; I'll torture
The crickets sing, and man's o'er-labour'd sense
He first presents his fire; and the high east
An I cannot, cannot, cannot,
In love
Of Paphlagonia; the Thracian king, Adallas;
Upon this call o' the trumpet.
Why should I play the Roman fool, and die
Between two horses, which doth bear him best;
Good madam!
'tis shame for us all: so God sa' me, 'tis shame to
More nor less to others paying
Once more to look on him.
And, look, when I am king, claim thou of me
Have holp to make so portly.
You of my household, leave this peevish broil
Retorts it: Romeo he cries aloud,
To think so base a thought: it were too gross
By my troth, I'll tell thee, I am almost sick for
Farewell the neighing steed, and the shrill trump,
Fortunate mistress,--let my prophecy
are as mad as he.
But upon the fairest boughs,
Therefore, out of thy long-experienced time,
This loam, this rough-cast and this stone doth show
company to-night?
will make them acquainted with your purpose, and I
O most unhappy strumpet!
Or to exclaim on fortune's fickleness.
breath stinks with eating toasted cheese.
Ah! and did they so?
Adieu, and take thy praise with thee to heaven!
Let this be granted, and Achilles' horse
You must consider that a prodigal course
Who have been false to Fulvia? Riotous madness,
Master Lorenzo, sola, sola!
When time shall serve, let but the herald cry,
Now we have shown our power,
Caesar than you shall do to Brutus. The question of
And give the king this fatal plotted scroll.
Good my lord, enter here.
'Tis in reversion that I do possess;
DON
His child, I wis, to incest bring;
A message well sympathized; a horse to be ambassador
Yea, subject to your countenance, glad or sorry
For half a hundred years. Summon the town.
May be call'd ransom, let it come: sufficeth
Be it ounce, or cat, or bear,
How far off is our brother Montague?
scall, scurvy cogging companion, the host of the Garter.
Murder indeed, that bloody sin, I tortured
You've said, sir. We looked not for Mark Antony
Go we to our tent:
I thought to close mine eyes some half an hour;
Show me, my women, like a queen: go fetch
You were not bid to speak.
Made many princes thither frame,
Knows he the wickedness?
RICHARD
O Rosalind! these trees shall be my books
Come, shepherd, let us make an honourable retreat;
In whom already he's well graced, can not
I'll give you Aquitaine and all that is his,
[Reads]  'I will waylay thee going home; where if it
She died at night; I'll say so. Who can cross it?
I know not where is that Promethean heat
That I can tell you too. The Archbishop
Shall Kate be my wife?
husband: but in such a 'then' I write a 'never.'
But since the affairs of men rest still incertain,
And the remainder, that shall still depend,
Unseemly woman in a seeming man!
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
That doth presume to boast of gentle blood.
have me whipped for lying; and sometimes I am
Your oath is pass'd to pass away from these.
Is as 'twere born so.
I think so, Charmian: dull of tongue, and dwarfish!
And, ten to one, old Joan had not gone out.
True, he was so: I know the cause too: he'll lay
quotidian tertian, that it is most lamentable to
Let gallows gape for dog; let man go free
To win a vulgar station: or veil'd dames
commodities upon our bills?
Ay me!
Exeunt
By decimation, and a tithed death--
him as a present to Mistress Silvia from my master;
No, not a whit: I find you passing gentle.
Under the canopy!
How!
'Tis not my speeches that you do mislike,
Then, Buckingham, I do dismiss my powers.
Would even infect my mouth, I do forgive
To quit the penalty and to ransom him.
What, will you have them weep our horses' blood?
And stop all sight-holes, every loop from whence
A contract of true love to celebrate;
Ay, every man away:
There doth my father lie; and there, this night,
Marry, sir, to get a husband for her sister.
Thou liest: his father is come from Padua and here
He never gave commandment for their death.
Should slip so grossly, both in the heat of blood.
SCENE III. The same.
Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
Will have of these trim vanities!
Ten thousand men that fishes gnaw'd upon;
How now there!
In your fair minds let this acceptance take.
If thou be'st yet a fresh uncropped flower,
It would beseem the Lord Northumberland
He will remain so.
At length the sun, gazing upon the earth,
No, Caesar shall not: danger knows full well
Do so, and after two days
Hath to the marbled mansion all above
Shall I not, then, be stifled in the vault,
Finch-egg!
lieve be a condemned man.
and my old Venetian friend Salerio?
A man of complements, whom right and wrong
A cry within
I am afraid to think what I have done;
Mecaenas; ask Agrippa.
Wherein we are not destitute for want,
Now, for this night, let's harbour here in York;
I did think thee, for two ordinaries, to be a pretty
Like Muscovites or Russians, as I guess.
To beaten Douglas; and the Earl of Athol,
Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS and certain Senators
Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed
The sheep for fodder follow the shepherd; the
And there cut off thy most ungracious head;
On plots and errors, happen.
I have this present evening from my sister
Where should he find it fairer than in Blanch?
'Twould be my tyranny to strike and gall them
Killing our enemies, the blood he hath lost--
For so appears this fleet majestical,
I'll wink and couch: no man their works must eye.
But yet I call you servile ministers,
And thou a prince, protector of this land,
Tribunes, I thank you: and this suit I make,
O, I am fortune's fool!
If love ambitious sought a match of birth,
When this is known, then to divide the times:
Should house him safe is wreck'd and split;
I would we had a thousand Roman dames
Exit THURIO
With many heads butts me away. Nay, mother,
Dismiss me!
To supper; to our house.
Were thinly scatter'd, to make up a show.
We put fresh garments on him.
Of good or bad unto the general;
[Aside]  Peace! stir not.
Not I, believe me.
Lets along.
The cambric, which she made more sound
the prince be willing; for, indeed, the watch ought
Goes to and back, lackeying the varying tide,
He plies the duke at morning and at night,
and I will tell you my drift.
well, and in dearness of heart hath holp to effect
Thou art thence banish'd, we would muster all
Burthen [dispersedly, within
our king the good Simonides.
So excellent a king; that was, to this,
Did you and he consent in Cassio's death?
Enter a Shepherd
Let them want nothing that my house affords.
To bear with their perverse objections;
Petitioners for blood thou ne'er put'st back.
There is some strange misprision in the princes.
But you the best. Pages and lights, to conduct
coz; for he's in the third degree of drink, he's
And yet the king not privy to my drift,
worthless satisfaction. To this add defiance: and
If he do break the smallest particle
For your physicians have expressly charged,
Shine out, fair sun, till I have bought a glass,
That did the latest service to my master.
As I was sometime Milan: quickly, spirit;
On him, on you, who not? I will maintain
the church.
counterfeit advantages, though true advantage never
A curse upon him, die he like a thief,
I, that I am one now:
That, having this obtain'd, you presently
If Alcibiades kill my countrymen,
Whose fulness of perfection lies in him.
He, that dares most, but wag his finger at thee:
The best of happiness,
Forbear me.
Toward that shade I might behold addrest
Or the division of the twentieth part
Enter EGLAMOUR
What says my bully-rook? speak scholarly and wisely.
Tut, fear not me.
Horatio,--or I do forget myself.
No blame be to you, sir; for all was lost,
Why, then thou art an executioner.
This field shall hold me; and so hold your vow:
Why dost ask that? I have forgot all men;
Enter COUNTESS and Clown
Then get your husband's lands, to do them good.
their brains! that we should, with joy, pleasance
What would you with me, honest neighbour?
In what manner?
Thou elvish-mark'd, abortive, rooting hog!
Worthy prince, I know't.
But when goes this forward?
Where is that ring, boy?
And so I pray you all to think yourselves.
In any chastisement: I for a while will leave you;
It is: and lo, where youthful Edward comes!
We'll light upon some settled low content.
Begot upon itself, born on itself.
Expect your highness' doom of life or death.
O, touch me not; I am not Stephano, but a cramp.
Thou art resolved?
To rouse thee from thy bed, there art thou dead:
Wounds IAGO
But let thy spiders, that suck up thy venom,
Of noble bachelors stand at my bestowing,
The instant burst of clamour that she made,
Over thy wounds now do I prophesy,--
Come with my lady hither.
I must not break my faith.
established proclaimed edict and continent canon,
Flourish. Exeunt
Exit ANGELO
shepherd, which stands by like a weather-bitten
ignorance, given your enemy your shield, think to
If you have victory, let the trumpet sound
A little time will melt her frozen thoughts
Not since widow Dido's time.
With so fun soul, but some defect in her
Did from the flames of Troy upon his shoulder
Nor shall proud Lancaster usurp my right,
My royal choice.
The evil that men do lives after them;
Now old desire doth in his death-bed lie,
And to conclude, the shepherd's homely curds,
And yet, amen, if heaven do think him me.
No doubt, my liege, if each man do his best.
not suffer me: she drops booties in my mouth. I am
Care keeps his watch in every old man's eye,
I'll entertain the offer'd fallacy.
O God, counterfeit! There was never counterfeit of
A modest one, to bear me back again.
Turning mortal for thy love.
You are pleasant, sir, and speak apace.
But goers backward.
'Shall Rome,  and c.' Thus must I piece it out:
That Julius Caesar was a famous man;
Or they so suffering: then on good ground we fear,
And look on their endeavour.
And die, ere men can say, God save the queen!
Might liquid tears or heart-offending groans
Let it be who it is: for Romans now
To see my best friend ta'en before my face!
Enter, on the walls, a Master Gunner and his Boy
And merely to revenge him on the emperor
for you; and I pray you to serve Got, and keep you
Kent, in the Commentaries Caesar writ,
We were dissuaded by our wicked queen;
How you were borne in hand, how cross'd,
Which Salique land the French unjustly gloze
He'll never yield to that.
But for thee, fellow; fellow, thy words are madness:
Sir,
Villains, forbear! we are the empress' sons.
My lord, he doth deny to come.
And had the tribute of his supple knee,
Mended again. The matter; proceed.
MUTIUS is put into the tomb
Towards Chertsey, noble lord?
That present medicine must be minister'd,
May this be possible? may this be true?
With eager feeding food doth choke the feeder:
Bassanio, lord Love, if thy will it be!
Win her with gifts, if she respect not words:
Was with long use account no sin.
'Will you come home?' quoth I; 'My gold!' quoth he.
Fare you well, my lord.
To the king's party there's no going: newness
you first,
Now, fellow,
This was a judgment on me; that my kingdom,
Why, man, I saw Bassanio under sail:
And live, as we do, in this wilderness?
That so her torture may be shortened.
not, loves thee not. Ut, re, sol, la, mi, fa.
for up and down she doth resemble thee:
Your nephew, late despised Richard, comes.
If these shows be not outward, which of you
sit, sit. The gods require our thanks.
But yet I cannot help you.
Which well appeared in his lineaments,
I cannot live out of her company.
Enter JULIET and Nurse
That water-walled bulwark, still secure
Yea even my foes will shed fast-falling tears,
Spirits, which by mine art
As having sense of beauty, do omit
Hautboys sound. The Company sit down at table
Exit with Jessica and Salarino
Have thy desire.
A pox of wrinkles!
deserved praise on my palfrey: it is a theme as
The feast is ready, which the careful Titus
should buy the fee-simple of my life for an hour and a quarter.
An interlude!
A spleeny Lutheran; and not wholesome to
His viands sparkling in a golden cup,
No, as I am a Christian:
A thousand raw tricks of these bragging Jacks,
Were you the clerk that is to make me cuckold?
And, for my name of George begins with G,
That writes them all alike: and so of men.
contrary. O Mistress Page, give me some counsel!
What woman's man? and how besides thyself? besides thyself?
Yea, and paid me richly for the practise of it.
There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and
Enter MACBETH
Then, in our measure do but vouchsafe one change.
To whip this dwarfish war, these pigmy arms,
My Alcibiades. With me? what is your will?
And public reasons shall be rendered
Brought to this town by that most famous warrior,
Since I saw you last,
Brother, give me thy hand; and, gentle Warwick,
They say Edgar, his banished son, is with the Earl
And for his ordinary pays his heart
Without ripe moving to't? Would I do this?
And talking of the Alps and Apennines,
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
And we will answer all things faithfully.
To render them redoubted! Look on beauty,
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
A man already made, as to remit
handkerchief and rings of his that Paulina knows.
Who wither'd in her spring of year.
I'll undertake to make thee Henry's queen,
That which appears in proper nakedness?
He was gotten in drink: is not the humour conceited?
Here pitch our tents, even here in Bosworth field.
I pray you, be content; 'tis but his humour:
I'll put myself in poor and mean attire
Confounds thy fame as whirlwinds shake fair buds,
of his salt and most hidden loose affection? why,
If he come not, then the play is marred: it goes
Beside that of the jewel house, is made master
Ill met by moonlight, proud Titania.
If that the devil and mischance look big
No, no; and therefore we'll have his head.
No sun shall ever usher forth mine honours,
necessary for a cut-purse; a good nose is requisite
Forbear to sleep the nights, and fast the days;
Nor we disturb'd with prodigies on earth.
Alas, I had rather be set quick i' the earth
escapes not
And I am I, howe'er I was begot.
Exeunt
Come, lady, I will show thee to my kin;
you think is his name?
Why, in good time.
Yet the incessant weepings of my wife,
Ah, Joan, this kills thy father's heart outright!
A forked mountain, or blue promontory
Well said, my masters; and welcome all. To this
He sent command to the lord mayor straight
Of murderous lechers: and in the mature time
What yours?--and yours?
Our lives upon to use our strongest hands.
Where now half tales be truths: her love to both
If you seek
Stands with the snares of war to tangle thee:
Amongst the soldiers this is muttered,
verse: we see it, we see it. How now, lambs?
But that which gives my soul the greatest spurn,
The English are embattled, you French peers.
'Tis a strange serpent.
Thanks, Jupiter!
I will marry her, sir, at your request: but if there
Alas, sir, I know not Jupiter; I never drank with him
cudgel: it shall hang like a meteor o'er the
No, cousin, I'll to Fife.
To the Capitol, come:
And rack thee in their fancies.
A horned man's a monster and a beast.
able to lead her a coranto.
Some of his bastard blood; and in disgrace
orchard like a bum-baily: so soon as ever thou seest
Was not Charles, the duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?
Let it suffice the greatness of your powers
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Tell me, sweet Kate, and tell me truly too,
Then every thing includes itself in power,
threw this whale, with so many tuns of oil in his
make your wit bankrupt.
To hear by the nose, it is dulcet in contagion.
From course required; or else thou must be counted
Is it possible dat I sould love de enemy of France?
cony-catched in this business: I dare swear this
Those twins Of learning that he raised in you,
You leer upon me, do you? there's an eye
Nor near nor farther off, my gracious lord,
I love thee best, O most best, believe it. Adieu.
Your unknown sovereignty!
question, thou wilt be, if my cousin do not look
And a good soldier too, lady.
They did not bless us with one happy word.
Yes, I have gained my experience.
Of a glad father compass thee about!
Now, by my life, this day grows wondrous hot;
Brother, we done deeds of charity;
I'll slash; I'll do it by the sword. I bepray you,
Vouchsafe, defused infection of a man,
The spinsters, carders, fullers, weavers, who,
has a familiar under his tongue; he speaks not o'
prave passages; marry, th' athversary was have
In your own losses, if he stay in France.
And I am tied to be obedient;
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
Infusing him with self and vain conceit,
Whom they have ravish'd must by me be slain.
It were no less; but yet I'll make a pause.
Of trembling winter, the fairest
Where the infectious pestilence did reign,
Sir Robert could do well: marry, to confess,
Where is he, hear you?
By heaven, I will tear thee joint by joint
Give not this rotten orange to your friend;
A sure and safe one, though thy master miss'd it.
[Within]	Lord Hamlet,--
I fear thou art another counterfeit;
The usurping helmets of our adversaries!
Peace, master marquess, you are malapert:
thou hast mettle enough in thee to kill care.
Whose virtue and whose general graces speak
the very ice of chastity is in them.
My bosom likes not, nor my brows! Mamillius,
Yon island carrions, desperate of their bones,
Well, Duke of Gloucester, I will yield to thee;
SCENE I. The same.
If thou wert sensible of courtesy,
As they us to our trenches followed.
Certain ones then.
Is it even so? begin you to grow upon me? I will
I'll make thee eat iron like an ostrich, and swallow
And therein fasting, hast thou made me gaunt:
A thing most brutish, I endow'd thy purposes
Enter LUCIO
That can denote me truly: these indeed seem,
Saint Denis bless this happy stratagem!
SCENE II. An ante-chamber in the palace.
A freestone-colour'd hand; I verily did think
O my gentle cousin,
Even with the fierce looks of these bloody men.
That man of hers, Pisanio, her old servant,
wife within a mile where my land and living lies;
softly as foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there.
Lady,
It may be,
That I have room with Rome to curse awhile!
This was his gentleman in trust--of him
Help, Jupiter; or we appeal,
They advance to another post
Happy, in that we are not over-happy;
Hath had no power yet upon thy beauty:
this courteous office, as to know of the knight what
March patiently along: let one be sent
Many a time hath banish'd Norfolk fought
What mean'st by this?
A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
have run some ground. My master's a very Jew: give
That patient merit of the unworthy takes,
of malice I swear, I am not that I play. Are you
Never fear that: if he be so resolved,
Tell thy story;
Renowned prince, how shall poor Henry live,
It seems you loved not her, to leave her token.
That you will feed on; but what is, come see.
Whose party do the townsmen yet admit?
That drew their swords with you. Did he not rather
Enter BANQUO, and FLEANCE with a torch
As living here and you no use of him.
Nor heaven nor earth have been at peace to-night:
thought of it, I would take Desire prisoner, and
The very firstlings of my heart shall be
companion that you give offence to.
Forgive them what they have committed here
You'ld feel more comfort: why should we, good lady,
And I accept the combat willingly.
At Gratiano's lodging some hour hence.
Nay, that's not so.
Who waits there?
When, spite of cormorant devouring Time,
ACT I
That whoso ask'd her for his wife,
To-morrow morning let us meet him then.
Thus high at least, although your knee be low.
Let him be told so; lest perchance he think
That bids me be of comfort any more.
Re-enter POINS
Art thou proud yet?
Off, pluck off:
But 'tis no matter; thou shalt bring him to me
And for that name which is no part of thee
Here in the prison, father,
What, Jessica!--thou shalt not gormandise,
Either a coward or a flatterer.
and father. This villain of mine comes under the
Nay, it is ten times true; for truth is truth
Pass the remainder of our hateful days?
But be it as it may: I here entail
The vision. Enter, solemnly tripping one after  another, six personages, clad in white robes,  wearing on their heads garlands of bays, and golden  vizards on their faces; branches of bays or palm in  their hands. They first congee unto her, then  dance; and, at certain changes, the first two hold  a spare garland over her head; at which the other  four make reverent curtsies; then the two that held  the garland deliver the same to the other next two,  who observe the same order in their changes, and  holding the garland over her head: which done,  they deliver the same garland to the last two, who  likewise observe the same order: at which, as it  were by inspiration, she makes in her sleep signs  of rejoicing, and holdeth up her hands to heaven:  and so in their dancing vanish, carrying the garland with them. The music continues
I pray you, let it stand.
Farewell: thou canst not teach me to forget.
Enter Musicians
Which our divines lose by 'em.
Which you weep for.
That Angelo is an adulterous thief,
What dares not Warwick, if false Suffolk dare him?
I should judge now unhappily.
And dares not answer nay;--
Nothing, sir, but that I am beaten.
Exit LAUNCE
Depose him in the justice of his cause.
For as a surfeit of the sweetest things
Well worthy the best heir o' the world, should not
should be hanged and carved upon these trees?
And then, sir, would he gripe and wring my hand,
Teems, and feeds all; whose self-same mettle,
To his home before us. Fair and noble hostess,
Is there no remedy?
Lights, lights, lights!
But being charged, we will be still by land,
conclusions to be as kisses, if your four negatives
He hath ta'en the infection: hold it up.
Disguise the holy strength of their command,
SCENE II. A public place.
old turning the key.
It will come,
Emilia, come. Be as your fancies teach you;
And all my powers do their bestowing lose,
no more pains for those thanks than you took pains
So to enforce or qualify the laws
But were our witty empress well afoot,
is here! I think our fellows are asleep.
What were his marks?
Shall I tell you why?
But where the greater malady is fix'd,
Look after him and cannot do him good,
Have all his ventures fail'd? What, not one hit?
Your dangerous lenity. If you are learn'd,
shore of my modesty: but my brother justice have I
Of every creature's best!
Nay, come away.
Miranda.--O my father,
next him now, parts bread with him, pledges the
Have not you love enough to bear with me,
Would I could free't!
Our purpose necessary and not envious:
wot of.' He makes me no more ado, but whips me out
Aside to them
Against my crown, my oath, my dignity,
If you will tarry, holy pilgrim,
wholly depends on your abode.
Do, Paulina;
I was anointed king at nine months old;
And, truly, I'll devise some honest slanders
SCENE I. On board PERICLES' ship, off Mytilene. A close
Which you did shoot the first, I do not doubt,
Signior Bassanio, hear me:
I'ld have you buy and sell so, so give alms,
Which thou takest from me. When thou camest first,
seas, live in fire, eat rocks, tame tigers; thinking
That may succeed as his inheritor;
The key whereof myself have ever kept;
Friar Lodowick to be a dishonest person?
The Lion shakes Thisbe's mantle, and exit
Like Romans, neither foolish in our stands,
Therefore, I pray you, lead me to the caskets
Contending 'gainst obedience, as they would make
Free from our feasts and banquets bloody knives,
without cause, mistress, do I?
Jove send her
Do not you chide; I have a thing for you.
you.
And to give notice, that no manner of person
A recreant and most degenerate traitor
And least proportion of humanity:
I had rather have a handful or two of dried peas.
If there were reason for these miseries,
But I might master it: in faith, I lie;
Most welcome!
For what before it was.
Presented to the tears of soft remorse.
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep,
SCENE X. Another part of the plain.
to the devil wrath; one unperfectness shows me
Then they for sudden joy did weep,
Before herself, almost at fainting under
As thou art knight, never to disobey
extracting it clutch'd? What reply, ha? What
Alarum. Fight at sea. Ordnance goes off. Enter a  Captain, a Master, a Master's-mate, WALTER WHITMORE, and others; with them SUFFOLK, and others, prisoners
display to the night.
Dies
Do it with gentle means and easy tasks:
Caesar himself has work, and our oppression
And I will give you audience.
And vanish'd from our sight.
Which can distinguish sound.
For then she could stand alone; nay, by the rood,
Let him be punish'd, sovereign, lest example
And will she yet debase her eyes on me,
As high in the air as this unthankful king,
Fare you well, sir.
I am in parliament pledge for his truth
The creatures that were mine, I say, or changed 'em,
From such fell serpents as false Suffolk is,
Pity may move thee 'pardon' to rehearse.
In his own conduct, purposely to take
her degree, neither in estate, years, nor wit; I
For this damsel, I must keep her at the park: she
Valour and pride excel themselves in Hector;
Bear that proportion to my flesh and blood
Did Jessica steal from the wealthy Jew
Why, sir, I know her not.
prodigal, who dare scarce show his head on the
Exeunt
Life and these lips have long been separated:
If that thy gentry, Britain, go before
exhibition; but for the whole world,--why, who would
I'll present myself. Peace to the lords of Tyre!
That thus can make him bite the law by the nose,
But now I envy at their liberty,
Exit QUEEN ELIZABETH
This comes with seeking you:
As ending anthem of my endless dolour.
Is Caesar yet gone to the Capitol?
We will for Ireland; and 'tis time, I trow:
He show'd his warrant to a friend of mine:
the passado he respects not, the duello he regards
[Aside]  All of her that is out of door most rich!
heritage: and I think I shall never have the
I list not prophecy; but let Time's news
yesterday in despite of my invention.
Even in the strength and height of injury!
and master?
I paint him in the character. Mark what mercy his
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
I gave thee life and rescued thee from death.
Set less than thou throwest;
Where is Launce?
As if the entertainment in our court
Makes my past miseries sports: you shall do well,
And in the height of this bath, when I was more than
Poison'd, then.
Such strong renown as time shall ne'er decay.
leave to in the crop; if I be his cuckold, he's my
Would you desire lime and hair to speak better?
Where is the provost?
I am that Isabella and his sister.
Upon mine honour, he shall never know
Will you go, coz?
So the revenge alone pursued me! Polydore,
Why do you look so strange upon your wife?
It may not be.
Upon the rack, Bassanio! then confess
The gold I give thee will I melt and pour
And deeper than oblivion we do bury
That with the plume: 'tis a most gallant fellow.
Should ask, if Katharina should be his wife,
Moves in this lip! to the dumbness of the gesture
There is no lady of more softer bowels,
From forth the streets of Pomfret, whom I found
Away! what art thou?
You here at Milford-Haven with your ships:
my neighbours shall cry aim.
The first was Menelaus' kiss; this, mine:
These few days' wonder will be quickly worn.
In the which hope I blush, and hide my sword.
Take all, and wean it; it may prove an ox.
Follow, and do me service.
Good: I will expect you.
Enter CHATILLON
How things are perfected.
Now, fair Hippolyta, our nuptial hour
taken a solemn leave: his lordship will next
Heaven will direct it.
I think I shall command your welcome here,
Now, captain?
Enter CLOTEN
Than in Lord Angelo.
What is the matter, trow?
By interception which they dream not of.
My lord, I will not.
Indeed, she's a most fresh and delicate creature.
As might have drawn one to a longer voyage,
Why, if it be so, I will marry her upon any
Keep yet their hearts attending on themselves,
The battery from my heart. O, cleave, my sides!
fool, and a coward, as you then reported him to be?
self? It were, my lord, a hard condition for a maid
As soon he shall by me, that thus the cardinal
'What is your parentage?'
Thunder and lightning. Enter from opposite sides, CASCA, with his sword drawn, and CICERO
SCENE V. The palace.
Her knots disorder'd and her wholesome herbs
No, take more:
I will add the l'envoy. Say the moral again.
Instinctively had quit it: there they hoist us,
Will ye, like soldiers, come and fight it out?
O my dread lord,
Their papers, is more lawful.
Would I could meet him, madam! I should show
Never presented!--O, a root,--dear thanks!--
So would you be again to Henry,
Fall parti-colour'd lambs, and those were Jacob's.
That Henry's death, my lovely Edward's death,
What stay had I but Edward? and he's gone.
Being create for comfort, to be used
Tickle the senseless rushes with their heels,
And didst in signs again parley with sin;
On ember-eves and holy-ales;
Adventure to be banished myself:
To answer their suspicion with their lives.
corrupt her; only he hath made an essay of her
Macduff is missing, and your noble son.
An hundred marks! By this light, I'll ha' more.
If money were as certain as your waiting,
What is his reputation with the duke?
She was beloved, she loved; she is, and doth:
I am his brother, and I love him well.
Vouchsafe to show the sunshine of your face,
Where it was forged, with my rapier's point.
gold, wrought with flowers, bearing QUEEN
My clerk hath some good comforts too for you.
Come, high or low;
Does challenge much respect. Come, Desdemona,
For I spake to you for your comfort; did desire you
With all my heart, so thou canst get a wife.
Whiles they behold a greater than themselves,
To read a lecture of them? If thou wouldst,
May catch a wrench--would all were well--'tis pity;--
Dispose of them, of me; the walls are thine:
In ignorant concealment.
wars or no?
Nor can we lie distinguish'd by our faces
created for men to breathe themselves upon thee.
That's not an office for a friend, my lord.
of languages, and stolen the scraps.
meet; but mountains may be removed with earthquakes
The beauty of this sinful dame
Whatever torment you do put me to.
Exit
Look on the tragic loading of this bed;
voice so that I will roar you as gently as any
With plenteous rivers and wide-skirted meads,
No! why art thou then exasperate, thou idle
That is a fault.
We'll put thee down, 'gainst whom these arms we bear,
And so do I; yet did she call me so:
Away with him!
A stone.
Art thou to break into this woman's mood,
O, that your face were not so full of O's!
What, for a counter, would I do but good?
SCENE VII. The forest.
to come to the mines; for, look you, the mines is
Oft have I heard his praises in pursuit,
Royal Lear,
In every good thing.
My crown is in my heart, not on my head;
Then 'twas my turn to fly, and now 'tis thine.
Hath made us by-words to our enemies.
Err'd in this point which now you censure him,
Submitting me unto the perilous night,
O, madam, my old heart is crack'd, it's crack'd!
And your courtesy, for a ring-carrier!
O Caesar, read mine first; for mine's a suit
honour two notorious benefactors.
Is very snow-broth; one who never feels
Signior Hortensio, thus it stands with me:
And thou art flying to a fresher clime:
Controlling majesty: alack, alack, for woe,
Come, come, dispatch; 'tis bootless to exclaim.
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt,
From every meaner man.
Against his liking: think you it is so?
LOVE'S LABOURS LOST
To trust us in your business, we are ready
Yourself shall feast with us before you go
out of the court: they cherish it to make it stay
Put garlands on thy head.
And I do love thee: therefore, go with me;
To save a paltry life and slay bright fame,
O this woodcock, what an ass it is!
Give colour to my pale cheek with thy blood,
Done to me, undeserving as I am,
My sovereign liege, I do beseech your majesty
The Lord protect him from that kingly title!
By night frequents my house. I am a man
With any branch or image of thy state;
who in a cheap estimation, is worth predecessors
If from me he have wholesome beverage,
I am too high-born to be propertied,
And Dromio, my man, did bring them me.
As will stop the eye of Helen's needle, for whom he
me: I serve her; she is my lady. Why, this is
Trust to't, bethink you; I'll not be forsworn.
The damned'st body to invest and cover
The bounteous housewife, nature, on each bush
Lest child, child's children, cry against you woe!
Commend unto his lips thy favouring hand:
While she with harlots feasted in my house.
'Tis so; and here's the ladder for the purpose.
And I from heaven banish'd as from hence!
finder of occasions, that has an eye can stamp and
So singular in each particular,
Six frozen winter spent,
reason it thus and thus, yet nature finds itself
Women nearest; but men, men are the things
They never flatter'd thee: what hast thou given?
I saw thee late at the Count Orsino's.
not-pated, agate-ring, puke-stocking, caddis-garter,
And to fulfil his prince' desire,
Agamemnon, how if he had boils? full, all over,
Lord bishop, set the crown upon his head.
My hour is almost come,
My prisoner? or my guest? by your dread 'Verily,'
Go, John, go inquire for my master; I doubt
As she in beauty, education, blood,
To take her in her heart's extremest hate,
pleasing pricket;
But for a kingdom any oath may be broken:
Thou hast described
That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger
Is but a little way above our heads,
And he that slew them fouler than he is:
He is but outside: these pencill'd figures are
Music. Tables set out: Servants attending.  Enter divers Lords, Senators and others, at several doors
Think I am dead and that even here thou takest,
I say you are not.
And keep your honours safe!
thought not good to bruise an injury till it were
Mine ear must pluck it thence.
Here they bear away his body. Exeunt
Your high engender'd battles 'gainst a head
Of your great predecessor, King Edward the Third.
displeasure.
He brought a Grecian queen, whose youth and freshness
Which give some soil perhaps to my behaviors;
Well, well, he was the covert'st shelter'd traitor
May fall to match you with her country forms
sing it at her death.
This land of such dear souls, this dear dear land,
At Bristol I expect my soldiers;
But that I did proceed upon just grounds
They are the books, the arts, the academes,
Continue still in this so good a mind,
Retain that dear perfection which he owes
Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE
Yet in this captious and intenible sieve
Kneels
Which of you trembles not that looks on me?
Here is the cate-log of her condition.
And Talbot perisheth by your default.
Make up the rest upon you!
For valour, is not Love a Hercules,
And from my shoulders crack my arms asunder.
To FERDINAND
Here comes his grace in person. My noble uncle!
Have vanquish'd the resistance of her youth,
When we with tears parted Pentapolis,
In second voice we'll not be satisfied;
Brew'd with her sorrow, mesh'd upon her cheeks:
That I must yield my body to the earth
A drench for sur-rein'd jades, their barley-broth,
Ere they lack'd power to cross you.
And thou possessed with a thousand wrongs,
Must all determine here?
wife: I spy entertainment in her; she discourses,
'Tis not my profit that does lead mine honour;
It is a surplus of your grace, which never
Women! Help Heaven! men their creation mar
Hath made a shameful conquest of itself.
you may speak as small as you will.
Come on then; down, and swear.
And talk to you sometimes? Dwell I but in the suburbs
Is wicked meaning in a lawful deed
Security, I'll pawn my victories, all
Then, since the case so stands as now it doth,
Than empty tigers or the roaring sea.
And much I need to help you, if need were;
Thou wrong'st it, more than tears, with that report.
Thou hast the odds of me; therefore no more.
The world esteem'd thy father honourable,
That you have such a February face,
My pretty cousins, you mistake me much;
With them Sir Thomas Vaughan, prisoners.
You, my lords,
Write them together, yours is as fair a name;
They clap the lubber Ajax on the shoulder,
And fitter is my study and my books
Hath had no notice of these accidents;
Is't so, indeed.
charitably dispose of any thing, when blood is their
At supper! where?
From Troy and Troilus.
knows not from the enemy: we will bind and hoodwink
You shall not go, my lord.
a woman's fitness comes by fits. Therein I must
For, in conclusion, he did beat me there.
I may be pluck'd into the swallowing womb
I'll use thee kindly for thy mistress' sake,
I'll make so bold to call,
When it doth tax itself; as these black masks
virginity murders itself and should be buried in
Good Antony, your hand.
He did bespeak a chain for me, but had it not.
I take it kindly; and yet be well assured
his fortune, his fortune! O, let him marry a woman
what o' that?
wise fellow; thou didst make tolerable vent of thy
This is an aspic's trail: and these fig-leaves
I am no baby, I, that with base prayers
And hang a calf's-skin on his recreant limbs.
Not i' the worst rank of manhood, say 't;
When service should in my old limbs lie lame
A thing of pity!
Enter SATURNINUS with AARON
Quick, come!
Good morrow, all.
not stand to; in conclusion, equivocates him
Exeunt
Though all things foul would wear the brows of grace,
My oracle, my prophet! My dear cousin,
A herald, ho!
that shake me thus. Pish! Noses, ears, and lips.
Exeunt
How!
Of you, my gentle cousin Westmoreland,
I have heard of your paintings too, well enough; God
That Hubert, for the wealth of all the world,
Perhaps is but prolong'd: have patience and endure.
To him will we prove loyal: till that time
Our Roman hunting.
And calls them brothers, friends and countrymen.
The more I have, for both are infinite.
Thy own wish wish I thee in every place!
The duke is humorous; what he is indeed,
Your bondage happy, to be made a queen?
if he ask for me. I am ill, and gone to bed.
with him; hurt him in eleven places: my niece shall
Do you hear how we are shent for keeping your
That's a shealed peascod.
I' the commonwealth I would by contraries
hanging, or of some death more long in
Intelligence is given where you are hid;
I know they do; and I have well deserved it.
The horned herd! for I have savage cause;
SCENE I. A room in LEONTES' palace.
I'll prove a busy actor in their play.
Blow, blow, thou winter wind.
My mother had a maid call'd Barbara:
Than mid-day sun fierce bent against their faces.
No better.
The night-crow cried, aboding luckless time;
But value dwells not in particular will;
I curse myself, for they are sent by me,
would not, as they term it, praise her: but I would
adornment of my qualities. With that suit upon my
Thy paleness moves me more than eloquence;
I pray, desire her call her wisdom to her.
Consuming means, soon preys upon itself.
to light: who in the night overheard me confessing
Why then preferr'd you not your sums and bills,
falling out that year on Ash-Wednesday was four
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England,
Gentlemen, forward to the bridal dinner:
He hath, and is again to cope your wife:
Most grave Brabantio,
The medicine of our house, how shall we do?
thou never leave calling 'Francis,' that his tale
But Thomas, my dear lord, my life, my Gloucester,
Lord, no; yet I love thee too. And while thou
for he both pleases men and angers them, and then
can hardly remember.
Villain, not for thy life: take up my mistress'
We need not put new matter to his charge:
Delay not, Caesar; read it instantly.
Takest up the princess by that forced baseness
SCENE I. On a ship at sea: a tempestuous noise
will thaw.
Thy mistress' marks? what mistress, slave, hast thou?
Now, by my seat's right royal majesty,
And presently, I prithee.
What follows this?
That e'er I heard: shall I produce the men?
These wars determine: if I cannot persuade thee
Who for this seven years hath esteem'd him
As morning roses newly wash'd with dew:
Thou that wast born at sea, buried at Tarsus,
Re-enter LUCIUS
With twenty odd-conceited true-love knots.
Let Neptune hear we bid a loud farewell
Fame answering the most strange inquire,
William, how many numbers is in nouns?
Ay, but sir, 'While the grass grows,'--the proverb
That princely novice, was struck dead by thee?
King John, this is the very sum of all;
A very fine one: O, how he loves Caesar!
So puts himself unto the shipman's toil,
Fear her not, Lucius: somewhat doth she mean:
[Aside]  Now, by the gods, he could not please me better.
That gives our Troy, our Rome, the civil wound.
Fie, fie upon her!
As, an't please heaven, he shall not--they
Churchmen so hot? good uncle, hide such malice;
The usurper's cursed head: the time is free:
About some gossips for your highness.
O diable!
Now, in the names of all the gods at once,
May then make all the claim that Arthur did.
To be full quit of those my banishers,
It gives a very echo to the seat
Nothing goes right: we would, and we would not.
By the Bishop of Bayonne, then French ambassador;
Exeunt
That I will work against him: therefore your oaths
Or God will punish me. I do believe,
As my trust was; which had indeed no limit,
All will be ours, now bloody Talbot's slain.
till you may do it without controlment. You have of
that honour of hers which you imagine so reserved.
When, with a most impatient devilish spirit,
He set up his bills here in Messina and challenged
The pleasant garden of great Italy;
Exit
Two households, both alike in dignity,
Come, let's fall to; and, gentle girl, eat this:
And meet me presently at Salisbury.
Music plays. Enter two or three Servants with a banquet
you shall go by him.
King Lewis, I here protest, in sight of heaven,
Of spirit so still and quiet, that her motion
And you, our no less loving son of Albany,
Make holiday; your rye-straw hats put on
they die unprovided, no more is the king guilty of
They'll sit by the fire, and presume to know
Titus Andronicus, for thy favors done
With all my heart I'll sit and hear her sing:
You are deceived, sir: we kept time, we lost not our time.
man, as you know all, hath a contemptible spirit.
Newts and blind-worms, do no wrong,
How! not women?
on he has the cramp.
Exeunt TITUS, MARCUS, and LAVINIA
Fight: excursions. Enter KING HENRY VI, QUEEN MARGARET, and others
A statue than a breather.
Till this madman show'd thee? and what art thou now?
bless myself every way. You are both sure, and will assist me?
Other offenders we will pause upon.
That no man hath recourse to her by night.
The morn that I was wedded to her mother.
How now, how now, mad wag! what, in thy quips and
Enter two Senators and a Messenger
Yes, to pay a fine for a periwig and recover the
Come on your ways; open your mouth; here is that
He seems indifferent,
Good night, Titinius. Noble, noble Cassius,
Confirm'd by mutual joinder of your hands,
our princess English?
Kind uncle York, the latest news we hear
That virtuous prince, the good Duke Humphrey:
great buildings.
My worthy lord,
The means that heaven yields must be embraced,
bound with oak. I tell thee, daughter, I sprang not
Brother Petruchio, sister Katharina,
Thought is free.
Hath stay'd upon some favour that it loves:
Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.
The property by what it is should go,
And leave your jealousies too, I pray you.
That took some pains in writing, he begg'd mine;
To-morrow, then, I judge a happy day.
Re-enter AEMILIA, with ANTIPHOLUS of Syracuse and DROMIO of Syracuse
been Anne Page, would I might never stir!--and 'tis
Which each to other hath so strongly sworn.
Wherefore? tell true.
Before so noble and so great a figure
the streets,
Be drain'd! Let me embrace thee, Ajax:
Or if not so, then here I hit it right,
We met by chance; you did not find me here.
From slaves that apes would beat! Pluto and hell!
Therefore, most gracious duke, with thy command
Nothing so sure; and thereby all forsworn.
And say she uttereth piercing eloquence:
And on that day at noon whereon he says
And pluck commiseration of his state
neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
And since that time it is eleven years;
Touch me not so near:
Is whispering nothing?
Touch you the sourest points with sweetest terms,
At whose conception, till Lucina reign'd,
Be bounteous at our meal.
Take your rapier, Jack; I vill tell you how I vill kill him.
By Jove,
But, masters, here's money for you: and the general
You would quickly learn to know him by his voice.
This was no damsel, neither, sir; she was a virgin.
Doth speak of you, his cheek looks pale and with
To-night we hold a solemn supper sir,
The king is render'd lost.
Melt and no more be seen. O, come, be buried
Yields us kind answer.
'Tis a good piece.
That faced and braved me in this matter so?
But, like dumb statues or breathing stones,
We have not yet set down this day of triumph.
Porter, remember what I gave in charge;
I'll sacrifice the lamb that I do love,
an unshunned consequence; it must be so. Art going
Be ready, as your lives shall answer it,
O bloody Richard! miserable England!
I will tell you the beginning; and, if it please
And speak unto the same AEmilia!
But yet, you see how soon the day o'ercast.
knowledge in th' aunchient wars, upon my particular
Back to the Duke of Gloucester, tell him so.
I'll tell thee:
No farther than the Tower; and, as I guess,
And would not force the letter to my view!
Deliver'd to us; and for him forthwith,
That ever yet this land was guilty of.
Enter FALSTAFF
But answer made it none: yet once methought
but, I'll warrant him, as gentle as a lamb. Go thy
It greets me as an enterprise of kindness
Up to a whore; who now are levying
that, unless a man were cursed, I cannot tell what
Mean to establish Caesar as a king;
My lord? my lord?
But not the words.
the search,
I cannot find it; 'tis not in the bond.
Reign in this kingdom?
While other sports are tasking of their minds,
Do you uphold and maintain in your speeches,
I know, in honour, O, that ever I
[Aside to ISABELLA]  You are too cold.
Sir, to satisfy you in what I have said,
If thou stand excommunicate and cursed?
If in his grave he rest, we'll find him there;
Fronting the sun, receives and renders back
For 'tis a damned slave.
With a new Gorgon: do not bid me speak;
Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy thane,
My lord; I do confess I ne'er was married;
Flourish. Exeunt
What is Thisby? a wandering knight?
Believe me, sir, she is the goodliest woman
O Charmian,
Truly, a peck of provender: I could munch your good
Such unconstant starts are we like to have from
'Twere better not assay'd: therefore this project
I pray you and beseech you that you will.
Farewell, my lord.
What was't to you?
Lead me from hence:
him so pictured: you must either be directed by
They have their exits and their entrances;
Hark, how Troy roars! how Hecuba cries out!
The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes.
All's done, all's won; here breathless lies the king.
Go, call our uncle to our presence straight;
Thy dear love sworn but hollow perjury,
With the love-juice, as I did bid thee do?
A kingdom for a stage, princes to act
Therefore 'twere reason you had manners now.
[Aside]  But better, indeed, when you hold your peace.
O, that which I would hide from heaven's eye,
Sir John, there's one Master Brook below would fain
So dear in heart, not to deny her that
another experiment of his suspicion: but I am glad
Now, Cinna: now, Metellus: what, Trebonius!
His grace not being warn'd thereof before:
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Will make him say I moved him to those arms.
Enter ANTIPHOLUS of Ephesus and the Officer
met but they looked, no sooner looked but they
You said our work should cease.
There wants no diligence in seeking him,
Since when, his oath is broke; for, as I hear,
alone, howsoever you speak this to feel other men's
One hour's storm will drown the fragrant meads;
Alas, master, I am not able to stand alone:
The king, thy sovereign, is not quite exempt
That justly think'st, and hast most rightly said!
Exeunt
Those tender limbs of thine to the event
I think we are too bold upon your rest:
pleased, let them come in; but quickly now.
Sir Nathaniel, haud credo.
No, not a syllable:
But now 'tis odds beyond arithmetic;
I'll tell you more anon. Here's a noble feast toward.
I'll rather be unmannerly than troublesome.
prune; nor no more truth in thee than in a drawn
Was timed with dying cries: alone he enter'd
And yet would herein others' eyes were worse.
All of one nature, of one substance bred,
whipped three market-days together.
Yes, without all doubt.
That many things, having full reference
Thou seest that all the grace that she hath left
In fearful sense.
With precepts that would make invincible
We have stretch'd thus far, let us beseech you
He is the half part of a blessed man,
Behold the ordnance on their carriages,
And with a corded ladder fetch her down;
Aside to MISTRESS FORD
They were all struck for thee! naught that I am,
The charges of the action. We have made peace
creep under his gaberdine; there is no other
By him that thunders, thou hast lusty arms;
But that's no welcome: understand more clear,
Thou must not stay behind.
As banks of Libya,--though, Apollo knows,
You stand upon the ravage and behold
It ripens towards it. Strike the vessels, ho?
The king was slily finger'd from the deck!
As when they are fresh.
Neglected, rather;
To any happy messenger from thence.
Flock to their aid, and still their power increaseth.
Affrights thee with a hell of ugly devils!
For our best act. If we shall stand still,
From him; and thus he greets your majesty.
Like holy Phoebus' car. Give me thy hand:
From such a filthy vice: say to thyself,
And kept his credit with his purse,
Will make this sting the sooner. Cardinal Campeius
I am sure, I have received none; unless experience
We are blest in this man, as I may say, even blest.
I have not, my lord, deserved it.
Exit
ACT III
Made me neglect my studies, lose my time,
I will attend her here,
As Kate this chamber with her princely gait?
My boy shall fetch the scrivener presently.
Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar,
Let him not know't, and he's not robb'd at all.
Stand fair, I pray thee: let me look on thee.
Direct me, if it be your will,
I'll have it so: a little charge will do it.
And crowns for convoy put into his purse:
Expresseth his full tilth and husbandry.
Were shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless.
The whilst their own birds famish in their nests:
Lucilius' Servant	Flaminius! Sir, a word: pray, is my lord ready to
Else ne'er could he so long protract his speech.
Or last, your fine Egyptian cookery
Exeunt
Fortune and Antony part here; even here
Lapis.
Tut, tut!
empty a heart: but the saying is true 'The empty
overmastered with a pierce of valiant dust? to make
By my hand, I had thought to have strucken him with
he will make. Well I am sorry for your niece. Shall
Thou art as opposite to every good
My best beloved and approved friend,
You know he does.
In such gross kind?
Therefore I came unto your majesty.
Throwing restraint upon us; or say they strike us,
sugar-candy to make thee long-winded, if thy pocket
And give my tongue-tied sorrows leave to speak.
Immediate are my needs, and my relief
Enter RODERIGO
Dismiss them home.
Masks for faces and for noses;
not me, nor I him: he hath neither Latin, French,
Have at you for a bitter jest or two!
Enter YORK
your misery increase with your age! I say to you,
Wilt thou be fast to my hopes, if I depend on
Low alarums
He has made too much plenty with 'em;
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,--
The winds of March with beauty; violets dim,
Give with thy trumpet a loud note to Troy,
ever since kept Hector fasting and waking.
Of whom I hope to make much benefit;
I'll be as patient as a gentle stream
If for the last, say ay, and to it, lords.
Enter LEONATO, HERO, and BEATRICE, with a Messenger
Why, e'en so: and now my Lady Worm's; chapless, and
Knocks
Losing both beauty and utility.
My fame is shrewdly gored.
Some mark of virtue on his outward parts:
Thank you, sir: farewell.
When I do stare, see how the subject quakes.
Your noble friends do lack you.
No.
As you had slept between: Leontes leaving,
Which may to you, perhaps, seem much unsinew'd,
I'll swear for 'em.
yours; for I will never love that which my friend hates.
Have we thus met? O, never say hereafter
Uncertain of the issue any way.
SCENE II. Another part of the wood.
Your breeches best may carry them.
present the princess, sweet chuck, with some
as you love Phebe, meet: and as I love no woman,
Than those proud titles thou hast won of me;
No matter: get thee gone,
By such invention as I can devise?
Wise.
This is the man should do the bloody deed;
I shall obey you in all fair commands.
Was nothing but mutation, ay, and that
there I'll sup. Farewell.
A wicked day, and not a holy day!
[To ESCALUS]  What you have spoke I pardon: sit you down:
Beshrew the witch! with venomous wights she stays
And with thy scorns drew'st rivers from his eyes,
So please your majesty
The heavens,
Sweet Desdemona! O sweet mistress, speak!
Disdaining me and throwing favours on
That from the hunter's aim had ta'en a hurt,
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Up Fish Street! down Saint Magnus' Corner! Kill
For nothing but his majesty's approach.
At Saint Gregory's well.
Even till a Lethe'd dulness!
bites his lip with a politic regard, as who should
That is not blinded by her majesty?
And left behind him Richard, his only son,
And, when my face is cover'd, as 'tis now,
To bid my king and master aye good night:
That of his fortunes you should make a staff
Her true perfection, or my false transgression,
Kill men i' the dark!--Where be these bloody thieves?--
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night,
Hast thou no mouth by land? What is the news?
any standers-by to curtail his oaths, ha?
Thou'rt my good youth, my page;
I will go meet them: and, my Lord AEneas,
Let them hang.
Where there is beauty; truth, where semblance; love,
And with the vantage of mine own excuse
My reasonable part produces reason
such things as you, I can scarce think there's any,
in one poor man, Pompion the Great, sir.
Do so, and 'tis well.
Without his top? The ruin speaks that sometime
Sir John stands to his word, the devil shall have
The gods forbid else!
The crown of Tyre, but he will none:
I know my remedy; I must go fetch the
That never may ill office, or fell jealousy,
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
Whither so late?
Revolted Mortimer!
Is quite forgot. He was a queen's son, boys;
Much in the letters; nothing in the praise.
neat's leather have gone upon my handiwork.
Amen, sir: to my poor unworthy notice,
As is the difference betwixt day and night
Why, sir, I trust I may have leave to speak;
true, that thou art beauteous; truth itself, that
Why, that's spoken like an honest drovier: so they
A letter for me! it gives me an estate of seven
That spirit upon whose weal depend and rest
My lord, break we off; we know your mind at full.
March: flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, and soldiers
And keep the turn of tippling with a slave;
Well, sir, we must have you find your legs. Sirrah
Stirr'd up by Dorset, Buckingham, and Ely,
You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom?
SCENE III. A church.
Exeunt
master: Anne is a good girl, and I wish--
And in his bosom spend my latter gasp:
Than summer-seeming lust, and it hath been
Would be interpreted a thing perplex'd
Make we our march towards Birnam.
she answers thee with frowning looks, I'll sauce her
and sepulchre. Hob, nob, is his word; give't or take't.
And they would go and kiss dead Caesar's wounds
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
Bring him before us.
o'er his part; for the short and the long is, our
My hangings all of Tyrian tapestry;
O Marcius, Marcius!
To the sweet glances of thy honour'd love,
Both have I spill'd; O would the deed were good!
As poisonous-tongued as handed, hath prevail'd
I cannot judge: but to conclude with truth,
Thou art sworn as deeply to effect what we intend
Say, ay; and of a boy.
And but thou love me, let them find me here:
losing of hope by time.
Repent you, fair one, of the sin you carry?
Most strange!
And if you love me, as you say you do,
Of that great shadow I did represent;
To comb your noddle with a three-legg'd stool
Now near enough: your leafy screens throw down.
to carry him to execution, and showed him a seeming
Have almost stamp'd the leasing: therefore, fellow,
Beat him enough: after a little time
O, could their master come and go as lightly,
SCENE IV. A street.
Alarum, and chambers go off
Of all the days of the year, upon that day:
The rites of marriage shall be solemnized.
This is a brave fellow.
Exeunt
What he cannot help in his nature, you account a
Will take again your queen as yours at first,
to an hundred mischiefs, and makes them leave me
Quiet yourselves, I pray, and be at peace.
Enter POMPEY
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd.
Go with me to the king: 'tis wonderful
In Rome, as well as I	mechanic slaves
But that my heart accordeth with my tongue,
are prevented.
Vex not his prescience; be attentive.
Kill Claudio.
of your marriage as to show a child his new coat
And lards the lean earth as he walks along:
Let me sit heavy on thy soul to-morrow!
another: you jig, you amble, and you lisp, and
Why, would that have mended my hair?
New joy wait on you! Here our play has ending.
Measure his woe the length and breadth of mine
The shame hereof will make me hide my head.
I never robb'd the soldiers of their pay,
Still confirmation:
Cassius or Caesar never shall turn back,
Of France and England, whose very shores look pale
Throng many doubtful hollow-hearted friends,
As 'twere a knell unto our master's fortunes,
That droops his sapless branches to the ground;
If is, my liege; and all things are in readiness.
His princess, say you, with him?
But, soft! methinks I do digress too much,
They will not stick to say you envied him,
Many a matter hath he told to thee,
Thirty-three years have I but gone in travail
if he should cheapen a kiss of her.
estimation.'
Are levying powers: we must straight make head:
Against the irregular and wild Glendower,
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
Stands apart
Must give this cur the lie: and his own notion--
look on. That dissembling abominable varlets Diomed,
And manners, to intrude where I am graced;
To North
but an islander, that hath lately suffered by a
'Twixt his unkindness and his kindness; the one
Now, Master Slender: love him, daughter Anne.
Some one take order Buckingham be brought
Make head against my estimation!
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
I saw Jove's bird, the Roman eagle, wing'd
Madam, I desire your holy wishes.
That I do beg his life, if it be sin,
There was no thought of pleasing you when she was
I cannot tell: the world is grown so bad,
reformation. There shall be in England seven
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
come from Pisa, and is here at the door to speak with him.
shoulder-blade is out.
O Ned, sweet Ned! speak to thy mother, boy!
Coursed one another down his innocent nose
I pray you, now receive them.
A critic, nay, a night-watch constable;
Never, O never shall I see more joy!
minute behind your hour, I will think you the most
I oft found both: I urge this childhood proof,
Call him a slanderous coward and a villain:
not, for the wealth of Athens, I had done't now.
Love loving not itself none other can.
We'll burn his body in the holy place,
Counterfeit? I lie, I am no counterfeit: to die,
With five times so much conversation, I should get
This fair alliance quickly shall call home
O spite! too old to be engaged to young.
Where did you buy it? or who gave it you?
Of hardiness is mother. Ho! who's here?
There's something in't,
This wide and universal theatre
Whence cometh this alarum and the noise?
I answer is most false. The duke by law
The wretch that thou hast blown unto the worst
For I have lost us him on a dangerous sea.
What reason have you for't?
That calumny doth use--O, I am out--
A soul as even as a calm: pray, think us
There is besides in Roderigo's letter,
Durst thou have look'd upon him being awake,
The which if you with patient ears attend,
Since you set up your rest 'gainst remedy.
tarry so long. But I would be loath to fall into
A place next to the king.
A thousand times committed; Cassio confess'd it:
Twelve cities and seven walled towns of strength,
My wasting lamps some fading glimmer left,
And now forthwith shall articles be drawn
Out of himself?
Do you not love me? do you not, indeed?
Or what is worst will follow.
Desires access to you.
Should reign among professors of one faith.
Whoa ho! ho, father Page!
Beats in this hollow prison of my flesh,
Cobweb: if I cut my finger, I shall make bold with
Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus,
But now I am return'd and that war-thoughts
Good night, good doctor.
And tire the hearer with a book of words.
If York have ill demean'd himself in France,
Lord worshipped might he be! what a beard hast thou
Thine, Claudio; thine, I say.
The presentation of but what I was;
Long kept in Bretagne at our mother's cost?
And say it is the queen and her allies
Good even. Friar, where's the provost?
Now, sir! what make you here?
But shall we dance, if they desire to't?
Then where you please, and shall be thought most fit
And so our scene must to the battle fly;
Yes, faith, and all his lords; the Duke of Milan
None good, my lord, to please you with the hearing;
They are apt enough to dislocate and tear
Of a rude stream, that must for ever hide me.
'Tis a spell, you see, of much  power: you know the
His majesty seldom fears: I am Cressid's uncle,
Ariel, thy charge
'Tis well; and I have met a gentleman
For they have pardons, being ask'd, as free
Whom sometime I have laugh'd with: let your highness
Enter POLONIUS
Tell her I send to her my kind commends;
Art thou a churchman?
engines for my life.
That he'll enjoin me to.
Is she not down so late, or up so early?
How now, my eyas-musket! what news with you?
Commend me to him: I will send his ransom;
it. Nay, friar, I am a kind of burr; I shall stick.
A fortnight hold we this solemnity,
Did practise on my state, your being in Egypt
Confounded be thyself! Speak not, be gone.
Pur! the cat is gray.
His loving bosom to keep down his heart.
But now I am cabin'd, cribb'd, confined, bound in
This throne, this Fortune, and this hill, methinks,
To cheque their folly, passion's solemn tears.
Which many a good tall fellow had destroy'd
married to a death's-head with a bone in his mouth
No worthier than the dust!
The virgin tribute paid by howling Troy
Swifter than arrow from the Tartar's bow.
With truant vows to her own lips he loves,
To the sweet Julia:' that I'll tear away.
'Twas one's that loved me better than you will.
Yes, gracious madam.
When at your hands did I deserve this scorn?
Fie, Joan, that thou wilt be so obstacle!
Betwixt that Holmedon and this seat of ours;
And lack of other means, in desperate manner
Am I; who ready here do stand in arms,
Only he hath not yet subscribed this:
'Tis fond to wail inevitable strokes,
How!
upon't! what have I forgot?
That kills and pains not?
If I do dream, would all my wealth would wake me!
Ah, sir, there's many a Greek and Trojan dead,
Exeunt
Staying for waftage. O, be thou my Charon,
Hermione, my dearest, thou never spokest
How is't, Laertes?
Better cheer may you have, but not with better heart.
Let what is here contain'd relish of love,
If happy England's royal king be free.
No vessel can peep forth, but 'tis as soon
My ill suspicion. This is your son-in-law,
With bootless labour swim against the tide
Enter Sir William LUCY
indeed she is given too much to allicholy and
Fare thee well. Thou art a piece of virtue, and
And now both rivals, to mock Helena:
And given to Lartius and to Marcius battle:
Conditionally, that here thou take an oath
My Lord of Warwick, and my brother Gloucester,
Thou bastard of my grandfather!
Enter MACBETH
To LUCIO
A second Daniel, a Daniel, Jew!
The chief cause concerns his grace of Canterbury.
And put the Englishmen unto the sword:
Well, miscreant, I'll be there as soon as you;
Continues still a Jove.
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
Soft, sir! one word more.
Howl, howl, howl, howl! O, you are men of stones:
complaint they have to the king concerns him
Some wine, boys!
O, ho, are you there with me? No eyes in your
And found it was his brother, his elder brother.
And what wilt thou do? beg, when that is spent?
Of both your armies; whose equality
Curbing his lavish spirit: and, to conclude,
Privy to none of this. How will this grieve you,
The worst of words.
Streaming the ensign of the Christian cross
been grievously peaten as an old 'oman: methinks
Bring oil to fire, snow to their colder moods;
We four indeed confronted were with four
This sight would make him do a desperate turn,
A Bohemian born, but here nursed un and bred; one
Meaning me a beast.
Began to give me ground: but I followed me close,
And every thing is left at six and seven.
You are well met, sir. You denied to fight with me
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
Brief as the lightning in the collied night,
Or why thou, being a subject as I am,
And what a terror he had been to France.
Exit
For lovers ever run before the clock.
Say it be, 'tis true.
I will help you to't. But tell me true, are you
A life's but a span;
To hovel thee with swine, and rogues forlorn,
The best and soundest of his time hath been but
Hold, sir, or I'll throw your dagger o'er the house.
And Buckingham, back'd with the hardy Welshmen,
Re-enter Provost
The better arm you to the sudden time,
Well, farewell; I am in great haste now.
An advocate for an imposter! hush!
That I have much ado to know myself.
For who, that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
What great creation and what dole of honour
Thou hast it now: king, Cawdor, Glamis, all,
He's one honest enough: would all the rest were so!
Some shall be pardon'd, and some punished:
Two Cliffords, as the father and the son,
What say these young ones? What say you my niece?
There is another friar that set them on;
Enter DUKE VINCENTIO disguised as before, CLAUDIO, and Provost
I shall with aged patience bear your yoke.
What did you swear you would bestow on me?
I am woe for't, sir.
Performers of this heinous, bloody deed?
And quietness, grown sick of rest, would purge
Of the king's ship
Let me be blest to make this happy close;
Gentlemen all,--alas, what shall I say?
Piercing the night's dull ear, and from the tents
Ah, my young princes! ah, my tender babes!
Lay couching, head on ground, with catlike watch,
So far in blood that sin will pluck on sin:
common herd was glad he refused the crown, he
Is that the naked fellow?
I'll pawn the little blood which I have left
Bell rings
to dinner, thither.
Live loathed and long,
Being but the second generation
To send them to you, only for this night;
What's that 'ducdame'?
It was the lark, the herald of the morn,
What, you look merrily!
Reputation, reputation, reputation! O, I have lost
Who does he accuse?
Whose thankless natures--O abhorred spirits!--
And tell the legions 'I can never win
How now, good Blunt? thy looks are full of speed.
accustomed crossness.
I am ashamed on't. Denied that honourable man!
Enter SHALLOW
Enter a Clown, with a basket, and two pigeons in it
Despised in nativity,
villain Posthumus, will I kill thee. I would these
Had I it written, I would tear the word.
To his concupiscible intemperate lust,
Why, he that's tied here, Crab, my dog.
With that grim ferryman which poets write of,
Envenoms him that bears it!
wept to have seen our parting; why, my grandam,
But here's a parchment with the seal of Caesar;
That beasts shall tremble at thy din.
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  Ay, where thou darest
Creep in our ears: soft stillness and the night
high-resolved men, bent to the spoil,
He that has a house to put's head in has a good
Repugnant to command: unequal match'd,
A heart it was, bound in with diamonds,
I had forgot myself; am I not king?
Let him die: sheathe thy impatience, throw cold
What vice is that, good Troilus? chide me for it.
The offence pardons itself. Dear Isabel,
Knocking within
discourse is sometime guarded with fragments, and
With too much blood and too little brain, these two
I'll take what winter from your lips, fair lady:
and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast.
Hath not the ring upon it; it is gone.
Of my revenge, thou present. But look to it:
Upon our kingdom: if, on the tenth day following,
Exit ULYSSES
horse with any that treads but on four pasterns.
He doth, my lord, and is become your foe.
To seek my uncle in the forest of Arden.
So it is said, my noble lord; but therefore
give me; in your conscience, now?
My lord?
Where shall we go?
shaven Hercules in the smirched worm-eaten tapestry,
'My thoughts do harbour with my Silvia nightly,
Enter TROILUS
Repented o'er his doom.
Good your highness, patience.
Thy leg a stick compared with this truncheon;
Tell me, thou villain slave, where are my children?
can construe the action of her familiar style; and
Be not offended, nature's miracle,
Let me see; a fat l'envoy; ay, that's a fat goose.
But wherefore could not I pronounce 'Amen'?
By this I shall perceive the commons' mind,
And Antony, were nature's piece 'gainst fancy,
peaceable reign and good government.
I'll have my bond; and therefore speak no more.
on you, I can hardly think you my master.
'Tis he, that villain Romeo.
Till the fresh taste be taken from that clearness,
This is good news:
Or else a rude despiser of good manners,
To come at first when he doth send for her,
The children must
to understand you have prevailed, I am no further
Sirrah, come on; go along with us.
To spy into abuses, and oft my jealousy
Up from my cabin,
And I will boot thee with what gift beside
Tetchy and wayward was thy infancy;
And by my side wear steel? then, Lucifer take all!
Description cannot suit itself in words
Come, come;
Through the false passage of thy throat, thou liest.
Then, gentle Clarence, welcome unto Warwick;
The orchard walls are high and hard to climb,
Cassio!
Then, if thou grant'st thou'rt a man, I have forgot thee.
Vaughan, and all that have miscarried
He cannot temperately transport his honours
Your shafts of fortune, though they hurt you mortally,
Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough
Ay, there, look grim as hell!
Where thou wilt hit me dead?
Exeunt
My life and education both do learn me
Remember to have heard: man's nature cannot carry
There shalt thou find the mariners asleep
For it is you that puts us to our shifts:
Let them be hunted soundly. At this hour
Thine being but a moiety of my grief,
Come, neighbour: the boy shall lead our horses down
Have rived the knotty oaks, and I have seen
Come to redeem me? there's a fearful point!
Sleep shall neither night nor day
They would not have you to stir forth to-day.
To the health of our general!
By all external warrants, show it now,
I like you, lads; about your business straight;
It should be thus with him: he must die tomorrow.
And then 'twill end.
Is my kinsman, whom the king hath wrong'd,
My soul flies through these wounds to seek out Thee.
Chiefly i' the world; more laugh'd at, that I should
Whose beam stands sure, whose rightful cause prevails.
Where feed'st thou o' days, Apemantus?
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
different names--sure, more,--and these are of the
As freely, son, as God did give her me.
You have it from his own deliverance.
lady: shall I vent to her that thou art coming?
O Lord, sir, who do you mean?
But basely yielded upon compromise
[Reads]
And grant it.
Very well; and could be content to give him good
Runs on his sword
Enter AARON
And see what death is doing.
No prodigal.
To fashion this false sport, in spite of me.
I'll be the first, sure.
My royal lord,
And after me, I know, the rout is coming.
The nephews to old Norway, Fortinbras.
Your brother dies to-morrow; be content.
Or nourish'd him as I did with my blood,
Are those that often have 'gainst Pompey fought:
And crickets sing at the oven's mouth,
The country, our dear nurse, or else thy person,
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard;
And from my heart's love I do thank thee for it.
Hadst thou in person ne'er offended me,
That hearing how our plaints and prayers do pierce,
Effects of courtesy, dues of gratitude;
After such bloody toil, we bid good night;
And pale destruction meets thee in the face.
though not with bag and baggage, yet with scrip and scrippage.
Which sleeps, and never palates more the dug,
Nor understood none neither, sir.
With your stiff age: but unto us it is
Nay, but hear me.
Exit
abstract for the remembrance of such places, and
For this advertisement is five days old:
But see, while idly I stood looking on,
Oh, you are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and taste
high-proof melancholy and would fain have it beaten
are in love too. Yet I profess curing it by counsel.
'Tis hatch'd and shall be so: Tranio, at once
For thine own future safety.
And smell of calumny. I have begun,
I did full hard forbear him. But, I pray you, sir,
That will not be deep-search'd with saucy looks:
On which I must fall down, or else o'erleap,
So early waking, what with loathsome smells,
Could he get me? Sir Robert could not do it:
Whose hours the peasant best advantages.
O brother Montague, give me thy hand:
Exit DENNIS
Exit IRAS. A noise within
'Tis three o'clock; and, Romans, yet ere night
And vengeance on the traitor Saturnine.
Than music from the spheres.
A villain to attempt it, who having drawn to do't,
raw rheumatic day!
As ever sigh'd upon a midnight pillow:
If I forgive him!
Lifts me above the ground with cheerful thoughts.
By fixing it upon a fairer eye,
Belong to the gallows, and be hanged, ye rogue! is
There's comfort yet; they are assailable;
Nay, my good soldier, up;
Did buy each other, must poorly sell ourselves
The lamps of night in revel; is not more man-like
Not carry her aboard. If she remain,
Sir, I hear you are a scholar,--I will be brief
What, were you banish'd thence?
and a man that I love and honour with my soul, and my
He'll make demand of her, and spend that kiss
And pity 'tis 'tis true: a foolish figure;
But milk my ewes and weep.
Which not to cut would show thee but a fool,
With the defunct, or sleep upon the dead.
Given hostile strokes, and that not in the presence
We do it not alone, sir.
You swore to that, Biron, and to the rest.
Sir Toby, I must be round with you. My lady bade me
of earnest.
Why, as you, my lord,
Following the signs, woo'd but the sign of she.
And she goes down at twelve.
Caesar's will?
They are now starved for want of exercise:
Tongue and brain not; either both or nothing;
forth more islands.
Bight Phoebus in his strength--a malady
You suffer for a pad conscience: your wife is as
You look as if you held a brow of much distraction
In such a righteous fashion as I do,
the fish, was when, at the relation of the queen's
For let our finger ache, and it indues
Do sorely ruffle; for many miles a bout
ales and his cups; so also Harry Monmouth, being in
Ha, thou mountain-foreigner! Sir John and Master mine,
All sleep except ALONSO, SEBASTIAN, and ANTONIO
In faith, I will go.
That have a father kill'd, a mother stain'd,
And be it moon, or sun, or what you please:
worm-eaten nut.
There's a good grandam, boy, that would blot thee.
Which are as easy broke as they make forms.
But if thy love were ever like to mine--
Show a fair presence and put off these frowns,
Desired us to make stand.
I'll not have it alter'd.
Our strong possession and our right for us.
Anjou and Maine are given to the French;
Turns what he list. The king will know him one day.
But tidings to the contrary
O sweet-suggesting Love, if thou hast sinned,
O monstrous! what reproachful words are these?
My lord is dead; Edmund and I have talk'd;
Hath Leonato any son, my lord?
Let's away; follow me.
off his drum in any hand.
A fellow, sir, that I have known to go about with
That they lost France and made his England bleed:
Brave York, Salisbury, and victorious Warwick,
Proves valueless: you are forsworn, forsworn;
him. I do invite you to-morrow morning to my house
Let me see thee froth and lime: I am at a word; follow.
Of the divorce he'ld make! The heavens hold firm
I have done the deed. Didst thou not hear a noise?
A march. Enter EDWARD, RICHARD, and their power
When I arrived and heard thee, that made gape
Certainly my conscience will serve me to run from
To those that know me. Come, love and health to all;
May reasonably die and never rise
Corrupt with virtuous season. Can it be
Draws the sweet infant breath of gentle sleep;
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
I had thought to have held it poor: but, since my lord
I pray you, let us satisfy our eyes
Would be as heavy to me as odious, but
Into the hearts of such as have not thrived
His golden uncontroll'd enfranchisement,
Yea, distaff-women manage rusty bills
Exeunt
Plead what I will be, not what I have been;
Well, say there is no kingdom then for Richard;
Nay, but swear't.
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
Since I have my dukedom got
For love of Edward's offspring in my womb:
And hide the false seems true.
Run when you will, the story shall be changed:
He mock'd us when he begg'd our voices.
Would from my forehead wipe a perjured note;
'Tis true; the raven doth not hatch a lark:
As mine, against their will. Should all despair
To ANTONIO
Are these thy ministers? what are they call'd?
Now falls on Priam.
Just and upright; and, for your royal birth,
I would my arms could match thee in contention,
He did unseal them: and the first he view'd,
When we grow stronger, then we'll make our claim:
Mars's hot minion is returned again;
I begin to love him for this.
I will not speak a word!
discourse, my lord.
The force of his own merit makes his way
And that may be determined at the one
Of silver, each on one foot standing, nicely
And our King Henry gives away his own,
Praised be God, and not our strength, for it!
He pageants us. Sometime, great Agamemnon,
And we are govern'd with our mothers' spirits;
Torment myself to catch the English crown:
You'll ne'er be friends with him; a' kill'd your sister.
What cheer? how is't with you, best brother?
'Tis sworn between us we shall ever strike
Exit
Lord Bigot, I am none.
Out, alas!
No doubt, no doubt; O, 'tis a parlous boy;
That smiles his cheek in years and knows the trick
Against them both my true joints bended be.
After the taste of much correction.
The peers agreed, and Henry was well pleased
There will we mount, and thither walk on foot
out of the house.
Not, indeed:
Great lords, from Ireland am I come amain,
Thy eye Jove's lightning bears, thy voice his dreadful thunder,
Of no allowance to your bosom's truth.
What a loss our ladies
merited, either in my mind or, in my means, meed,
He that is giddy thinks the world turns round.
Hast stol'n it from her?
Both of my life and office, I have labour'd,
Me too, let me go thither.
at your command; I will run.
And favour of the climate. As by strange fortune
But lest my liking might too sudden seem,
By law and process of great nature thence
What would she find? Lavinia, shall I read?
Deliver'd, by the holy gods,
Here's he that would take from you all your power.
foolish woman your wife! she gave it him, and he
For I will board her, though she chide as loud
This morning to them.
To come as humbly as they used to creep
This is a riddling merchant for the nonce;
To BIANCA
'Do't: the letter
a laced mutton, and she, a laced mutton, gave me, a
To mingle friendship far is mingling bloods.
And winking Mary-buds begin
And the will dotes that is attributive
Exeunt
Sir, you shall present before her the Nine Worthies.
come in my way, so: if he do not, if I come in his
thou me yet?
Answer, and think upon this business.
He left a promise to return again
And wash him fresh again with true-love tears.
Sir John, we have had ill luck; we could never meet.
I am sorry for't.
The lights burn blue. It is now dead midnight.
With this there grows
protest, mine never shall. I warrant he hath a
Sometimes to do me service: nine or ten times
Or make my ill the advantage of my good.
This let alone will all the rest confound.
Away with the joint-stools, remove the
How is it with you, my most fair Bianca?
Was aptly fitted and naturally perform'd.
Exit
Clapper-de-claw! vat is dat?
He's very near the truth in this.
In thirteen battles Salisbury o'ercame;
Eight and nine, sir.
And not of any challenge of desert,
Exit POLONIUS
For I have given here my soul's consent
Say to Ventidius I would speak with him:
What will you do with 't, that you have been
That you shall be my wife; your dowry 'greed on;
Even to roaring.
not see thy hand.
A pound of flesh, to be by him cut off
And you were sworn true subjects unto me:
Fair lovers, you are fortunately met:
Against the which, a moiety competent
And give't me in mine ear.
Each hath his place and function to attend:
A man of stricture and firm abstinence,
sought for, in the great chamber.
We'll feast each other ere we part; and let's
Whilst that my wretchedness doth bait myself,
Nor his?
Forgot thee utterly: nor have I time
Their course of love, the tidings of her death:
Yea, but a little charge will trench him here
O, je vous supplie, pour l'amour de Dieu, me
extended more than can be thought to begin from such a cottage.
Not a frown further. Go release them, Ariel:
Exeunt
'Tis true: where is he, Denny?
stand still; it is shame, by my hand: and there is
[Reads]  'Item, That no woman shall come within a
You conjure from the breast of civil peace
Some scar of it; lean but upon a rush,
Have fought with equal fortune and continue
By being seldom seen, I could not stir
Let me not hinder, Cassius, your desires;
to-morrow: I have a jest to execute that I cannot
Thou scarlet sin, robb'd this bewailing land
Here come the lords of Buckingham and Derby.
How hast thou lost thy breath?
O that there were some virtue in my tears,
SCENE XIV. The same. Another room.
I will not hold thee long: if I do live,
You shall do marvellous wisely, good Reynaldo,
Good, good.
on a recorder; a sound, but not in government.
O, treachery! Fly, good Fleance, fly, fly, fly!
Helen's heart good now, ha! Would I could see
That the earth owes. I hear it now above me.
I'll make her render up her page to me.
May be my friends. He's dead; I am only sorry
What must be shall be.
What sayst thou? did the Duke of York say he was
No, sir, I do not bite my thumb at you, sir, but I
For charity itself fulfills the law,
And the offender granted scope of speech,
And so to sea. Their vessel shakes
Ay, sir, you shall find me reasonable; if it be so,
methinks there would be no period to the jest,
The little number of your doubtful friends.
And so, good night.
Of your king's sorrow.
Be it lawful I take up what's cast away.
What, four? thou saidst but two even now.
Whereof my sovereign would have note, they are
Lies down and sleeps
His regiment lies half a mile at least
Courses as swift as thought in every power,
For doughty-handed are you, and have fought
And feed on curds and whey, and suck the goat,
He shall know you better, sir, if I may live to
For I attend here: but I'll see you soon.
To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary.
Accursed be that tongue that tells me so,
Enrobe the roaring waters with my silks,
SCENE IV. York. The ARCHBISHOP'S palace.
My lord, I neither can nor will deny
To the fairness of my power.
You were about to speak.
Exit
Discover how, and thou shalt find me just.
I lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard,
A second hope, as fairly built as Hector.
[Reads]  'with a child of our grandmother Eve, a
For I am that way going to temptation,
Hath been between this lady and this lord.
Else, ruin combat with their palaces!
Ay, now methinks I hear great Warwick speak:
Marry, this Claudio is condemned for untrussing.
wagging of your beards; and your beards deserve not
Can lay on nature is a paradise
By thee; and this thou didst return from him,
Between her brother and Mark Antony.
If, Tullus,
Than is the doting title of a mother;
virginity was first lost. That you were made of is
is dat knave Rugby?
Edward, what satisfaction canst thou make
Is noble Timon: of whose memory
I never knew woman love man so.
Give me thy fist, thy fore-foot to me give:
And thereupon thou speak'st the fairest shoot.
Exeunt
By that which has undone thee: hinge thy knee,
And were the king on't, what would I do?
And sweetly felt it.
Thy father, or thy mother, nay, or both,
Beshrew me, if I would do such a wrong
giving up of Normandy unto Mounsieur Basimecu, the
For there young Henry with his nobles lie.
Why, this would make a man a man of salt,
Dear Duff, I prithee, contradict thyself,
Young man, thou couldst not die more honourable.
be thought we keep a bawdy house straight.
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
fool him black and blue: shall we not, Sir Andrew?
And let us do it with no show of fear;
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,--
Intends his journey; and within three days
Nor yoke with him for tribune.
To wish him wrestle with affection,
I stood engaged: but when I had subscribed
And his old hate unto you; besides, forget not
He shall do this, or else I do recant
Exit
The knee before him, and returns in peace
And that she has discharged: what thou wouldst do
Make periods in the midst of sentences,
I think, sir, you can eat none of this homely meat.
To CYMBELINE
Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the
Ay, with my sword. What! think'st thou that we fear them?
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
As full of valour as of royal blood:
Give me audience, good madam.
Had slipp'd our claim until another age.
An eye-sore to our solemn festival!
Exeunt WARWICK and SALISBURY
there to command.
He wonder'd that your lordship
ANTIPHOLUS
That for thyself: I will not so presume
So near our public court as twenty miles,
What? I say,
Exeunt Players
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
Your horror's pardon:
From forth the ranks of many thousand French,
As he hath followed you, with all despite;
They kill us for their sport.
At this odd-even and dull watch o' the night,
That I came with no ill intent; for to me
Nay, good, sweet husband! Good gentlemen, let him
Be strew'd before your feet!
catch cold on's feet.
To comfort you: I wot well where he is.
I scorn thy meat; 'twould choke me, for I should
And play'd to take spectators. For behold me
You all did love him once, not without cause:
For your great seats now quit you of great shames.
my nation? Who talks of my nation?
should; he cannot creep into a halfpenny purse,
How comes that?
When I protest true loyalty to her,
Which now's upon's; without the which this story
my case. The spite of man prevaileth against me. O
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
He greets me well. Your master, Pindarus,
If you can look into the seeds of time,
way.
Of Laertes?
crooked face at it. I can't say your worships have
Exeunt
I know not, sir.
Hath caused his death: the which if wrongfully,
Enter MONTAGUE with drum and colours
Exeunt Knights
The opening of his mouth; but suddenly,
amongst you as suits, with gentlemen of your
I leave myself, my friends and all, for love.
Alarum and retreat within. Re-enter EDGAR
RICHARD
Before the sun shall see 's, we'll spill the blood
The lark, that tirra-lyra chants,
I will be so bold as to wear it in my cap till I see
Thanks, noble peer;
Enter LADY MACBETH, with a taper
Bliss be upon you! Tell me, good my friend,
Very true, sir; he, sir, he; that's the rogue that
Dionyza does appear,
Desires your highness' company.
In the dark backward and abysm of time?
You may do, then, in time. Fare you well, sir.
To beat me out of Egypt; my messenger
Look, therefore, Lewis, that by this league and marriage
He that hath miss'd the princess is a thing
If ever I return to you again,
he will offer to say what methought I had. The eye
'Tis not sleepy business;
of rushes I am sure you are not prisoner.
Thou grievest my gall.
Sir, I do know you;
We'll hear him, we'll follow him, we'll die with him.
of.
Go, get thee gone, I say.
I'll crop, to make a garland for my head.
Gives him the letter
Patiently to bear my wroth.
But you, my knight and guest;
should be hanged, I cannot imagine.
I should have been beholding to your paper.
As now I reap at thy too cruel hand!
A confidence sans bound. He being thus lorded,
Do glue themselves in sociable grief,
that they cannot at ease on the old bench? O, their
But if your title to the crown be weak,
Here is her oath for love, her honour's pawn.
You see this fellow that is gone before;
friend for a man. I keep but three men and a boy
Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean.
Took it too eagerly: his soldiers fell to spoil,
A very superficial, ignorant, unweighing fellow.
That strike beside us.
Why, now thou diest as bravely as Titinius;
And I,--like one lost in a thorny wood,
virtues: yet at last she concluded with a sigh, thou
Let him approach: call in my gentlewoman.
Shall thy good uncle, and thy brother Lucius,
ANTONIO: Let me yet know of you whither you are bound.
A cause for thy repeal, we shall not send
To keep his daughter company; whose loves
Sir,
Will I withal endow a child of thine;
You have seen nothing then?
Thy skipping spirit, lest through thy wild behavior
Never, my lord.
No, mighty liege; therefore mistrust me not.
With some delight or other.
and rather, as it seems to me now, keepest from me
have no strength in measure, yet a reasonable
Exit ARIEL
Which is that adversary?
Quench'd in the chaste beams of the watery moon,
Not long before your highness sped to France,
Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
for the most part are capable of nothing but
And though you call my course unnatural,
Doth with a twofold vigour lift me up
Nay, good master parson, keep in your weapon.
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
Mischance and sorrow go along with you!
He seek the life of any citizen,
And think thee worthy of an empress' love:
Enter SAMPSON and GREGORY, of the house of Capulet, armed with swords and bucklers
Enter TAMORA
Your enemies are many, and not small; their practises
Unless abroad they purchase great alliance?
Exeunt SALARINO and SALANIO
let the issue show itself.
Proud setter up and puller down of kings!
May unfold me to him; there stand I in much peril:
I am the provost. What's your will, good friar?
Good Helicane, that stay'd at home,
The silver livery of advised age,
Now, messenger, what letters or what news
Who shut their coward gates on atomies,
After the slander of most stepmothers,
have perceived a most faint neglect of late; which I
Patience is for poltroons, such as he:
Yes, indeed, was I.
If Talbot but survive thy treachery.
As thus,--to study where I well may dine,
For York in justice puts his armour on.
O, step between her and her fighting soul:
It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Too fairly, Hubert, for so foul effect:
was senseless; 'twas nothing to geld a codpiece of a
Re-enter LYSANDER
I'll stay no longer question.
He is well paid that is well satisfied;
You pay a great deal too dear for what's given freely.
My liege, the wound that bred this meeting here
Holds hand with any princess of the world.
I cry your worship's mercy, heartily: I beseech your
have him now,--and there,--and there again, and there.
'Tis almost five o'clock, cousin; tis time you were
Pray, sit between these ladies.
To solemnize this day the glorious sun
had a feigned letter of my master's
near-legged before and with, a half-chequed bit
When I am known aright, you shall not grieve
Fled with a Christian! O my Christian ducats!
If any friend will pay the sum for him,
Yet to draw forth your noble ancestry
The Prince of Wales stepp'd forth before the king,
And what is in't, the never-surfeited sea
Timandra had gold of him: he likewise enriched poor
Man's life's as cheap as beast's: thou art a lady;
Exeunt
Than any of her lineaments can show her.
Well could I curse away a winter's night,
for ever perfect.
I had thought I had had men of some understanding
And every day that comes comes to decay
Nothing may give us aid.
A thing more made of malice than of duty:
Thy place is fill'd, thy sceptre wrung from thee,
When it is least expected.
You are the fount that makes small brooks to flow:
At a crack'd drachm! Cushions, leaden spoons,
Enter THYREUS
Like her! O Isis! 'tis impossible.
Make tigers tame and huge leviathans
We cannot but obey
I'll draw the curtain:
And, should we shift estates, yours would be mine.
And of a dragon and a finless fish,
Exeunt LOVELL and DENNY
Shall keep us both the safer: where we are,
Signior Baptista, shall I lead the way?
And worthy shameful cheque it were, to stand
To wage against thy enemies; nor fear to lose it,
They do not go together.
Say yea to thy desires. A thousand welcomes!
SCENE II. Southampton. A council-chamber.
To London, all in post; and, as I guess,
In them and in ourselves our safety lies.
There's a good mother, boy, that blots thy father.
teaches him to hick and to hack, which they'll do
And start so often when thou sit'st alone?
Your lord does know my mind; I cannot love him:
Your grace is welcome to our town and us.
To speak unto this city: what say you?
If we will keep in favour with the king,
And sear up my embracements from a next
Retiring
Re-enter BARDOLPH with sack
Shall darken him for ever.
Is the young Dauphin every way complete:
To scan this thing no further; leave it to time:
As wretches have o'ernight
My lord of Orleans, and my lord high constable, you
some part of our zeals, we should think ourselves
Will in concealment wrap me up awhile;
And, as I wooed for thee to obtain her, I will join
howsoever you colour it in being a tapster, are you
I guess thy message. Is the queen deliver'd?
To have him kill a king: poor trespasses,
Thy warlike hand, thy mangled daughter here:
Between them they will kill the conjurer.
Go in and cheer the town: we'll forth and fight,
And yet I needs must curse. But they'll nor pinch,
That tell black tidings.
And sees fast by a butcher with an axe,
And charged him with a thousand marks in gold,
Where is the post that came from Montague?
On terms of base compulsion! Can it be
She shall be married to this noble earl.
prince; no, fie!
And cruel death hath catch'd it from my sight!
His well-proportion'd beard made rough and rugged,
How canst thou woo her?
tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.
Madam, it so fell out, that certain players
That I mean to thee. Tell thy mistress how
It is my will, the which if thou respect,
Enter HENRY PERCY
And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts
Who have we here?
Never; he will not:
Romans, of five and twenty valiant sons,
With one that, in her sex, her years, profession,
According to your ladyship's impose,
See how the surly Warwick mans the wall!
That Margaret may be England's royal queen.
How now, fellow!
By the worst means, the worst. For mine own good,
Of a diverted blood and bloody brother.
I am sorry, madam; for the news I bring
eyes looked upon, was the best deserving a fair lady.
I' the cave wherein they bow, their thoughts do hit
Lo, by my truth, the instrument is cold
And yet shalt thou be safe? such safety finds
O master, if you did but hear the pedlar at the
Were rich and honourable; besides, the gentleman
Am I made?
For you in my respect are all the world:
Whose footing here anticipates our thoughts
Than to be perk'd up in a glistering grief,
Yet, that the world may witness that my end
And tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd.
How now, fellow! would'st anything with me?
We o'er-raught on the way: of these we told him;
The bleeding witness of her hatred by;
Poor Tom; that eats the swimming frog, the toad,
More than I dare make faults. You few that loved me,
Are we come hither: since that thy sight,
That laid the sentence of dread banishment
And bid me, when my fate would have me wive,
What ill request did Brutus make to thee?
One.
Or, if he do, it needs must be by stealth.
At board he fed not for my urging it;
Unto the shore, to ask those on the banks
French crowns, and to-morrow the king himself will
you tarry here. By gar, I will cut all his two
He's right noble:
shepherds; I cannot see else how thou shouldst
Were it a casque composed by Vulcan's skill,
'Tis mightiest in the mightiest: it becomes
She is going, wench: pray, pray.
When we our betters see bearing our woes,
Search, seek, and know how this foul murder comes.
And make me happy in your unity.
Knows he of this?
You tell us the manner of the wrestling.
knees! But, sirrah, there's no room for faith,
cannot be able to express it.
Why sigh you so profoundly? where's my lord? gone!
thing about him. Good, then; if his face be the
On special dignities, which vacant lie
Which some did die to look on: and all this--
I will owe thee an answer for that: and now forward
What, prithee?
SCENE III. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
Darest with thy frozen admonition
Most like a noble lord in love and one
a compelled valour, and in the grapple I boarded
Stabbing him
Methinks a father
Should, if a coward heard her speak these words,
Thrice is he armed that hath his quarrel just,
ANTIPHOLUS
But, orderly to end where I begun,
We'll not be long away.
For, by the dreadful Pluto, if thou dost not,
Re-enter GLENDOWER with the ladies
'hereafter' the kneading, the making of the cake, the
How fain would I have hated all mankind!
Villain, thou know'st no law of God nor man:
Nor would your noble mother for much more
Fear not our care, sir.
Mother, I am going to the market-place;
Hark! by the sound of drum you may perceive
Thus answer I in the name of Benedick,
But with a heart full of unstained love:
Enter three or four Servingmen, with spits, logs, and baskets
Three glorious suns, each one a perfect sun;
Bid him repair to us to Ely House
Were then but subjects; being now a subject,
But my true love is grown to such excess
lord, if you will give me leave, I will tread this
Nor send him forth that we may bear him hence.
SCENE V. Lord Derby's house.
saddle. Yet you must be saying, Marcius is proud;
That if your highness should intend to sleep
Cursed be the hand that made these fatal holes!
The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores,
Contend not, sir; for we are gentlemen
Prove as successful to the queen,--O be't so!--
The error of our eye directs our mind:
Exit
usurers' men! bawds between gold and want!
Exit
Why, so! then am I sure of victory.
The chaplain of the Tower hath buried them;
My former speeches have but hit your thoughts,
Or brought a faggot to bright-burning Troy?
displeasures, and his indignations, and also being a
Where Scotland?
they be true; if not true, none were enough.
O Ratcliff, I have dream'd a fearful dream!
This sudden stag of rancour I misdoubt:
magnanimous and most illustrate king Cophetua set
Beaufort, it is thy sovereign speaks to thee.
time; he put it the third time by: and still as he
The winged vengeance overtake such children.
My love as it begins shall so persever.
A mistress's command. Wear this; spare speech;
My lord, because we have business of more moment,
It best agrees with night. Come, civil night,
Then is my sovereign slain?
that I might have cudgelled thee out of thy single
he is indeed Justice.
Any bar, any cross, any impediment will be
That thou art banished--O, that's the news!--
And the flesh'd soldier, rough and hard of heart,
Can you still dream and pore and thereon look?
They do suggest at first with heavenly shows,
Farewell, kind neighbours: we wish'd Coriolanus
When they should serve their sovereign in the west?
IAGO offers to stab EMILIA
Catesby hath sounded Hastings in our business,
one; they'll find linen enough on every hedge.
Whither?
Come, here's the map: shall we divide our right
That all the courts of France will be disturb'd
Shave the head, and tie the beard; and say it was
That flesh is heir to, 'tis a consummation
Now Hercules be thy speed, young man!
Came to the field and vanquished his foes:
The verier wag o' the two?
To see this gracious season.
what's the matter?
Then strike up drums: God and Saint George for us!
Unless you can find sport in their intents,
To consummate this business happily.
for the goose carries not the fox. It is well:
Madam, your majesty is too much sad:
And what to your sworn counsel I have spoken
Of the part of England.
How sometimes nature will betray its folly,
So newly join'd in love, so strong in both,
As for the brat of this accursed duke,
Or put upon you what restraint and grievance
At the duke's oak we meet.
If you do, sir, I am for you: I serve as good a man as you.
Upon faint primrose-beds were wont to lie,
That is no slander, sir, which is a truth;
My lord, what is your will?
Enter two Soldiers to their guard
This token serveth for a flag of truce
Your mystery, your mystery: nay, dispatch.
To say I am thy mother? What's the matter,
Base inclination and the start of spleen
Yea, mistress, are you so peremptory?
A stone is soft as wax,--tribunes more hard than stones;
'Tis here!
What! will you fly, and leave Lord Talbot?
What thou hast done thy master Caesar knows,
What is he?
Did they not sometime cry, 'all hail!' to me?
Our colours do return in those same hands
But God hath made her sin and her the plague
request, cousin, in any reason.
My father and Glendower being both away,
Your son's my father's friend; he takes his part.
Follow his chariot, like the greatest spot
amiss; and as many lies as will lie in thy sheet of
Now, fair befall you! he deserved his death;
The nimble-footed madcap Prince of Wales,
more since.
my comfort is, that old age, that ill layer up of
Well or ill,
Thou art a traitor and a miscreant,
Mine was not bridled.
stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house; and we
My lord?
Ere we may think her ripe to be a bride.
He's honest, on mine honour. God's blest mother!
With what he would say, let him feel your sword,
be cheater to them both, and they shall be
And the gods strengthen thee!
Yet had not we determined he should die,
This nor hurts him nor profits you a jot;
Dies in his own too much: that we would do
The Grecian Diomed, and our Antenor
What willingly he did confound he wail'd,
Shall give him such an unaccustom'd dram,
Was feverous and did shake.
And tell him privily of our intent.
And how she was beguiled and surprised,
Enter Clown
For vice repeated is like the wandering wind.
'Have I no friend?' quoth he: he spake it twice,
Because he's guilty, and he is not guilty:
Where these two Christian armies might combine
These that survive let Rome reward with love;
Soul-killing witches that deform the body,
With pity, that doth make me sick. A lady
testimony of his intent, you shall run a certain
Come, offer at my shrine, and I will help thee.'
Who I do think is mine and love as mine,
Enter KING CLAUDIUS, QUEEN GERTRUDE, HAMLET,  POLONIUS, LAERTES, VOLTIMAND, CORNELIUS, Lords, and Attendants
To doubtful fortunes; sequestering from me all
I know so. But, gentle Lady Anne,
Thou odouriferous stench! sound rottenness!
You will not pay for the glasses you have burst?
Now the wasted brands do glow,
From Claudio and the prince: but what's your will?
Well, lords, to-day we shall have our dispatch:
Gentle madam,
And be a carrion monster like thyself:
From Sicyon, ho, the news! Speak there!
That though his actions were not visible, yet
A challenge, on my life.
For nature puts me to a heavy task:
A stranger, and I not know on't!
Exeunt
Come on, then; wear the favours most in sight.
found so severe, that he hath forced me to tell him
Now shall he try his friends that flatter'd him.
But follow me, and Edward shall be ours.
A sixth, a tenth, letting them thrive again
AEmilius, let the emperor give his pledges
Might but redeem the passage of your age!
Look'd pale when they did hear of Clarence' death?
And let her read it in thy looks at board:
ACT II
'Tis most nobly spoken.
O, break! O, break!
That sought to be encompass'd with your crown:
Dost please thyself in't?
And I will make thee think thy swan a crow.
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
What is this maid with whom thou wast at play?
Thus, for my duty's sake, I rather chose
A play there is, my lord, some ten words long,
Answer your summons; Juno does command:
A more satiety of commendations.
I am great with woe, and shall deliver weeping.
Betwixt our nation and the aspiring French;
What great ones do the less will prattle of,--
of some kind of men that put quarrels purposely on
That is Laertes,
Look, sirs, if you can find the huntsman out
That e'er devotion tender'd! What shall I do?
As e'er I heard in madness.
To enter conquerors and to proclaim
This dead king to the living king I'll bear
As wit turn'd fool: folly, in wisdom hatch'd,
For, by your leaves, you shall not stay alone
His fellowship i' the cause against your city,
Irons of a doit, doublets that hangmen would
Well, thou shalt see, thy eyes shall be thy judge,
Who's here? speak, ho! No answer! What is this?
Trumpet answers within
But let the laws of Rome determine all;
And in our coronation take your place.
As gifts to Desdemona;
I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
married the yeoman of the wardrobe.
Alas, poor rogue! I think, i' faith, she loves me.
All have not offended;
Gently entwist; the female ivy so
All merciless proceeding by these French
And she not hear of it?
She soon shall know of us, by some of ours,
Go to; say no more.
And that same greatness too which our own hands
Or bring him off: fate, hear me what I say!
I pray you, though you mock me, gentlemen,
A blank, my lord. She never told her love,
Her brother is in secret come from France;
A thriving issue: there is no lady living
Upon his party for the gain thereof:
Till their own scorn return to them unnoted
When peers thus knit, a kingdom ever stands.
That hast by tyranny these many years
I hear it by the way; but I will send:
Doth thy other mouth call me? Mercy, mercy! This is
Wert thou not banished on pain of death?
To his confine: and of the truth herein
every thing and their intent every where; for that's
It back to Tybalt, whose dexterity,
ANTIPHOLUS
Offend our hearing; hush! How dare you ghosts
More than God or religious churchmen may.
They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue.
With ruder terms, such as my wit affords
For who is living, if those two are gone?
To square for this? would it offend you, then
They are harsh and heavy to me.
Methought I had; and often did I strive
Once more, on pain of death, all men depart.
I was promised them against the feast; but they come
Sweet madam, give me a hearing in a cause--
And happily may your sweet self put on
Dost thou believe, Orlando, that the boy
That I require a clearness: and with him--
Since not to be avoided it falls on me.
To be revenged upon her. For when fools Shall--
Have sent thee treasure. Go, live rich and happy;
them to a dog for a new-year's gift. The rogues
Under an oak whose antique root peeps out
'Tis much deep: and it should seem by the sun,
Thick and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers,
Were but a weak disabling of myself.
And hang me up in chains!
Therefore no more turn me to him, sweet Nan.
Does he rake this together! Now, my lords,
The fountain from the which my current runs,
May to your wishes pleasure bring
Will answer as a law.
To those that cry by night, convey thy deity
Alas, I know not; how gets the tide in?
Or that the resolute acting of your blood
ANTIPHOLUS
What is avouched there. If you miscarry,
Which thou supposest I have done to thee.
That's the plain truth: your painted gloss discovers,
Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows,
Which I will over-pay and pay again
Awake, awake, English nobility!
It was myself, my brother and his son,
Exit
And undertake the teaching of the maid:
Where you may temper her by your persuasion
lust, are not the things they go under: many a maid
What rein can hold licentious wickedness
To pay their awful duty to our presence?
So, come, help: well struck! there was blow for blow.
That fears him much; and my misgiving still
Exit
'Faith sir, we were carousing till the
No, sir; but it is vara fine,
A very excellent piece of villany:
SCENE II. Before the council-chamber. Pursuivants, Pages,  and c.
Exit Gentleman
[Aside]  The Prince of Cumberland! that is a step
Now in his life, against your holy oath?
Hark! she speaks: I will set down what comes from
The service that you three have done is more
Now, my young guest, methinks you're allycholly: I
My Lord Sands, you are one will keep 'em waking;
Is oft the cause of fear. But, see, thy brother.
Welcome from Mantua: what says Romeo?
Suffolk, the new-made duke that rules the roast,
treacherous device and never leave thee till he
O pity, pity, gentle heaven, pity!
that have the voice of lions and the act of hares,
Though peril to my modesty, not death on't,
No, indeed, is't not; and I would to heaven
Can ye endure to hear this arrogance?
Ho, ho, confess'd it! hang'd it, have you not?
More feathers to our wings; for, God before,
fiend hath led through fire and through flame, and
Yes, when he is in; but I think he is not in.
To keep those many many bodies safe
Made suit to come in's presence; which if granted,
Enter CASSIUS
If you'll be patient, I'll no more be mad;
Your tenants, friends and neighbouring gentlemen.
Confer with me of murder and of death:
For I will touch thee but with reverent hands;
rare carpenter? Come, in what key shall a man take
More fit to do another such offence
But to rejoice in splendor of mine own.
vice in him. You must in no way say he is covetous.
What, canst thou say all this, and never blush?
Midnight, assist our moan;
is more hotter in France than there.
Sharp enough,
Who loses and who wins; who's in, who's out;
what we know:
Things have been strangely borne. The
itself: but I will acquaint my daughter withal,
That hath dishonour'd Gloucester's honest name.
And sends the poor well pleased from my gate.
succession for it perpetually.
Deserves thy trust, and thy most perfect goodness
Therefore take heed how you impawn our person,
My lovely Aaron, wherefore look'st thou sad,
Hum! ha! is this a vision? is this a dream? do I
Say they know not, they cannot tell; look grimly,
There hath at least five Frenchmen died tonight.
Peace, you ungracious clamours! peace, rude sounds!
You have said well.
I'll after them.
Do not deny to him that you love me.
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed,
Henry the Sixth, in infant bands crown'd King
And when I wander here and there,
They must either,
nativity to this instant, and have nothing at his
Bids thee, with most divine integrity,
His soul thou canst not have; therefore be gone.
To hedge me in; I am a soldier, I,
Me, as his abject object: at this instant
Patience herself, what goddess e'er she be,
Set him before me; let me see his face.
'Wit, whither wilt?'
me now, thou naughty varlet, tell me, where hast
Welcome, Mercade;
And wake him to the answer, think you?
So that my errand, due unto my tongue,
Fools on both sides! Helen must needs be fair,
Nor, I'll assure you, better taken, sir.
be glad of his approach: if he have the condition
'Tis true:
And in sad cypress let me be laid;
Here's a stay
Let me have judgment and the Jew his will.
I come to fetch you to the senate-house.
I have fought with thee: so often hast thou beat me,
For the mutable, rank-scented many, let them
What ceremony else?
a year: but, by'r lady, he must build churches,
with the fashions, full of wingdalls, sped with
Dear lad, believe it;
Do not you wear your dagger in your cap that day,
That angel of the world, doth make distinction
Whip me, ye devils,
You never had a servant to whose trust
Nor is not, sure.
positive as the earth is firm that Falstaff is
And that his bags shall prove.
Ventidius lately
Nothing but males. Will it not be received,
An hour before I came, the duchess died.
Did ever raven sing so like a lark,
Follow me, then. Lord Helicane, a word.
Call me their traitor! Thou injurious tribune!
And let their heirs, God, if thy will be so.
My friend, I spy some pity in thy looks:
To put down Richard, that sweet lovely rose,
Alarum. Enter YORK
A murrain on't! I took this for silver.
It is the cry of women, my good lord.
Will't please you walk aside?
To see her in your arms.
'Tis certain he hath pass'd the river Somme.
Those girls of Italy, take heed of them:
Never so needful on the earth of France,
Glancing an eye of pity on his losses,
My youngest boy, and yet my eldest care,
Or as a moat defensive to a house,
In their continuance will not feel themselves.
How you can frown than spend a fawn upon 'em,
By their own beauties; or, if love be blind,
This shall I undertake; and 'tis a burden
Does your worship mean to geld and splay all the
Hence! hang not on my garments.
Lie hid moe thousand deaths: yet death we fear,
I did not send you: if you find him sad,
Thy brother by decree is banished:
And I nothing to back my suit at all,
Here comes Bassanio, your most noble kinsman,
You shames of Rome! you herd of--Boils and plagues
Has a new master: get a new man.
man's heart.
He vanishes in thunder; then, to soft music  enter the Shapes again, and dance, with mocks and mows, and carrying out the table
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
Washes it off, and sprinkles in your faces
Worthies, away! the scene begins to cloud.
'twere not as good deed as drink, to break the pate
No way to that, for weakness, which she enter'd.
Re-enter Servingman
cause, and merry against the hair: he hath the
If only to go warm were gorgeous,
But in this kind to come, in braving arms,
I never swore this lady such an oath.
I'll deliver all;
Which woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep,
Breathes out of her: she hath not been entranced
We do salute you, Duke of Burgundy;
And, honest company, I thank you all,
As much to you at home! and so, farewell.
ACT V
Fie, what a spendthrift is he of his tongue!
It most of all these reasons bindeth us,
France being ours, we'll bend it to our awe,
Kneeling
Enter BAPTISTA
But new struck nine.
All hail, sweet madam, and fair time of day!
I may not, verily.
I had thought, sir, to have held my peace until
O, you hope the duke will return no more; or you
My sickness grows upon me.
That these great towers, trophies and schools
Solemn and strange music
bride goes to that with shame which is her way to go
The peace of England and our persons' safety,
With maiden flowers, that all the world may know
To loves mistook, and so be mock'd withal
hedge and follow you.
Not by my consent, I promise you. The gentleman is
God knows, of pure devotion; being call'd
of natures: she, having the truth of honour in her,
Why masters, have your instruments been in Naples,
DON
I do repent it from my very soul.
I saw him in the battle range about;
Why, is he not with the queen?
To stand against the deep dread-bolted thunder?
Are rid like madmen through the gates of Rome.
How courtesy would seem to cover sin,
Be thus upbraided, chid and rated at,
A man who for this three months hath not spoken
Under the which is writ 'Invitis nubibus.'
You are a fool; go to.
For piercing steel and darts envenomed
And thou shalt live as freely as thy lord,
If it be aught toward the general good,
I'll sweeten thy sad grave: thou shalt not lack
For he was likely, had he been put on,
again, and flourish with the highest. Therefore
More worth than empty vanities; yet prayers and wishes
Defy the matter. How cheerest thou, Jessica?
That can make vile things precious. Come,
Led by the Dauphin.
That cannot say as much. This is a subtle whore,
Our puissance into the hand of God,
Praying for both parts:
I found no man but he was true to me.
Let your close fire predominate his smoke,
And sails upon the bosom of the air.
Through the forest have I gone.
Hath slain ten thousand Tybalts. Tybalt's death
Being distress'd, was by that wretch betray'd,
Whose power was in the first proportion,
Unless, by using means, I lame the foot
thousand; here will be father, godfather, and all together.
O Lord, sir! There's a simple putting off. More,
Or seem so craftily; and that's not good.
Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past,
This touches me in reputation.
Enter Senators on the walls
Enter CHARLES, ALENCON, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, REIGNIER, and others
Enter, from one side, OBERON, with his train; from the other, TITANIA, with hers
And here my brother, weeping at my woes.
Therefore this order hath Baptista ta'en,
I warrant thee.
birding-pieces. Creep into the kiln-hole.
Falling on Diomed.
Exit an Attendant
hunts, but one that fills up the cry. My money is
Put strength enough to't.
And so to study, three years is but short.
Exeunt
Exit Officers with LUCIO
sluttishness may come hereafter. But be it as it may
Hast thou not spoke like thunder on my side,
And, with them, words of so sweet breath composed
Jesus preserve your royal majesty!
You have show'd a tender fatherly regard,
So says the bond: doth it not, noble judge?
Or my true heart with treacherous revolt
Once by the king, and three times thrice by thee.
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, BENEDICK, and LEONATO
Sheathes his sword
SCENE I. A public place.
Thou common whore of mankind, that put'st odds
A mighty man of Pisa; by report
And you tell me that he shall die for it.
Or race of youthful and unhandled colts,
Could be but recompensed, though you were crown'd
For such things in a false disloyal knave
Most rich in Timon's nod.
Sings
To make the truth appear where it seems hid,
Have moved us and our council, that you shall
Yea, or to-night.
That all is done in reverend care of her;
Welcome is banishment; welcome were my death.
carrying gates. I am in love too. Who was Samson's
The emperor's court is like the house of Fame,
Until that act of parliament be repeal'd
Here are letters for you.
Come hither, friend: where is the king my master?
A shrewd contriver; and, you know, his means,
course truly. If thou would have such a one, take
Do hourly carp and quarrel; breaking forth
Their battering cannon charged to the mouths,
Lest leaden slumber peise me down to-morrow,
Within me grief hath kept a tedious fast;
With reservation of an hundred knights,
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
For in this rapture I shall surely speak
Why, no, sir.
Comest thou because the anointed king is hence?
Pray you, do so: she's a very tattling woman.
And baited it with all the unmuzzled thoughts
When wit's more ripe, accept my rhymes.
For I do fear eyes over--to shipboard
Enter a Messenger
God is our fortress, in whose conquering name
Exit
For it is none but thine!
Good sooth, even thus; therefore ha' done with words:
Be henceforth treacherous! Damn'd Pisanio
Why do we finger thus? I cannot rest
As doth a raven on a sick-fall'n beast,
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
Above their functions and their offices.
Why, I have not another tear to shed:
With a swain's wearing, and me, poor lowly maid,
game: ware horns, ho!
Exit
Came to me, as I follow'd Henry's corse,
Can you not hate me, as I know you do,
And, as thou seest, ourselves in heavy plight.
Methinks, I see him now--
Let not our looks put on our purposes,
Sir?
Singing
Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break,
With signs of war about his aged neck:
know not what pride is.
SCENE II. The same. A public way or platform leading to the
Thou shouldst a husband take by my consent,
How dost thou know that, constable?
It is a rupture that you may easily heal: and the
I crave their pardons:
thy praise.
Or else he never would compare between.
offence, honesty! 'Tis strange.
And nobleness impose: at least thus much:
We thus submit unto,--our sovereign.
But to say I know more harm in him than in myself,
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Exeunt
Why, any thing, but to the purpose. You were sent
We'll serve Him too and be his fellow so:
The deeds of justest men.
Nurse?
Enter OSWALD
So much for that. The silent hours steal on,
Thy honesty and love doth mince this matter,
Hath placed thy beauty's image and thy virtue.
Trenched in ice, which with an hour's heat
You pluck a thousand dangers on your head,
white herring. Croak not, black angel; I have no
And at the deanery, where a priest attends,
To lend me arms and aid when I required them;
And dares him to set forward to the fight.
Let me speak a little. This youth that you see here
I won his daughter.
With his mail'd hand then wiping, forth he goes,
Sir William Brandon, you shall bear my standard.
I know I am too mean to be your queen,
My gracious sovereign, my most loving liege!
Nay, if you have not, to it again;
me.
Lie there for pavement to the abject rear,
the spirits o' the dead
My hand to thee; mine honour on my promise.
it was not Anne, but a postmaster's boy.
I would detain you here some month or two
The articles o' the combination drew
Mars dote on you for his novices! what will ye do?
That did the like for Fleance: if thou didst it,
I shall, my lord.
Only reserved their factor, to buy souls
See where she comes.
if her breath were as terrible as her terminations,
Methinks your maw, like mine, should be your clock,
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
Leaps to be gone into my mother's bosom.
is't with you? What, man! defy the devil:
Exeunt Gentleman and Attendants
And be in eye of every exercise
Which great Love grant! and so, I take my leave.
The which no balm can cure but his heart-blood
Have with thee, my girl.
With crowns imperial, crowns and coronets,
Much in our vows, but little in our love.
Listen, but speak not to't.
Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon:
anon; 'tis a knavish piece of work: but what o'
I hold you as a thing ensky'd and sainted.
Get you home
and friend Simple by your name, which way have you
If 't be the affliction of his love or no
transgression is in the stealer.
Proportionable to the enemy
Exit Servant
Neither, fair saint, if either thee dislike.
Go, I discharge thee of thy prisoner, and I thank thee.
For who so firm that cannot be seduced?
To wear a heart so white.
His taken labours bid him me forgive;
And therefore is she born to make black fair.
I do not think a braver gentleman,
And, ere I part with thee, confer at large
For heaven now bids me; and the words I utter
However, but a folly bought with wit,
Sail like my pinnace to these golden shores.
shall find it a great charge: and to be up early
Then, gentle brother, get you in again;
Were still at odds, being but three.
O, had the monster seen those lily hands
The weight we must convey with's will permit,
Who should have died when Claudio lost his head;
By what rule, sir?
To give your censures in this weighty business?
I come to talk of commonwealth affairs.
The day shall not be up so soon as I,
Why, sir?
The dinner attends you, sir.
Ten thousand dollars to our general use.
And see their blood, or die with this reproach.
Dead?
Together with his mangled Myrmidons,
Laid gifts before him, proffer'd him their oaths,
O Dionyza, such a piece of slaughter
A bloody deed, and desperately dispatch'd!
Exit RUGBY
'Lo, Jupiter is yonder, dealing life!'
I was born free as Caesar; so were you:
Which accidentally are met together.
To-morrow; to-day; presently; you shall have the
That he have his. Call up some gentlemen.
A right good husband, let him be a noble
Used to command, untaught to plead for favour.
Sir, let me speak with you in your chamber: you
Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument?
Are not you Signior Benedick?
Brother of Gloucester, you mistake the matter.
Say either, and I'll stay the circumstance:
Therefore thy later vows against thy first
Hear a foot fall: we now are near his cell.
DON
And, as we hear, march on to fight with us.
To the ground, mistress.
When your sweet self was got.
And water cannot wash away your sin.
'Lo, thus' quoth Dighton, 'lay those tender babes:'
Exit
Ay.
I must not hear thee; fare thee well, kind maid;
Unpruned dies; her hedges even-pleach'd,
Where have you been these two days loitering?
Ceres' blessing so is on you.
Victorious Talbot! pardon my abuse:
Not so, sir, neither; I know my duty.
sworn brother, the people, to earn a dearer
Drum. Enter BRUTUS, CASSIUS, and their Army; LUCILIUS, TITINIUS, MESSALA, and others
Except a sword or sceptre balance it:
When I have told you that, I have told you all.
Enter OTHELLO
Why, you are nothing then: neither maid, widow, nor wife?
My spritely brethren, I propend to you
When that this body did contain a spirit,
keep close; we'll read it at more advantage: there
'Alla nostra casa ben venuto, molto honorato signor
To be presented, by your victories,
And hedges his own way. But in this point
Above their quantity.
From that contented hap which I enjoy'd,
[Aside to ISABELLA]
with him; I'll make him dance. Will you go, gentles?
Our strength as weak, our weakness past compare,
I do think so. Pray you, turn your eyes upon me.
But while 'tis spoke each turn away her face.
Against the thing I say. Answer to this:
facility, and golden cadence of poesy, caret.
By his attorneys-general to sue
But with a knave of common hire, a gondolier,
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, but this answer will not serve.
This grave shall have a living monument:
In least speak most, to my capacity.
marry, once before he won it of me with false dice,
Why, there 'tis; so say I too.
He hath a trick of Coeur-de-lion's face;
Never sees horrid night, the child of hell,
shall have a praise in present: we will not name
myself a king of infinite space, were it not that I
How easy is it for the proper-false
Exit FALSTAFF
made in the unchaste composition.
Ay, my commander: when I presented Ceres,
A very serious business calls on him.
Trust me, he beat him most pitifully.
Emmanuel.
Forsake unsounded deeps to dance on sands.
Where shall I find you?
I thank you for my venison, Master Shallow.
Is now the two hours' traffic of our stage;
him kill the next Percy himself. I look to be either
I would it had been of horse. Where shall I find
Absolute Milan. Me, poor man, my library
Upon my knee I beg, go not to arms
Best to be served: whilst he stood up and spoke,
Is strange and peevish.
All faults that may be named, nay, that hell knows,
A thousand fiends, a thousand hissing snakes,
Marry, sir, because silver hath a sweet sound.
But thou preferr'st thy life before thine honour:
Belike, for joy the emperor hath a son.
I pray, let them be admitted.
I cannot but remember such things were,
That in this spleen ridiculous appears,
learning, is indeed deceased, or, as you would say
By him imprinted and within his power
Or we will plague thee with incessant wars.
a little; comfort a little; cheer thyself a little.
Of thy devotion and right Christian zeal.
And,--prithee, lead me in:
Exit above
March
pox of the devil.'
The good humour is to steal at a minute's rest.
But I'll amerce you with so strong a fine
After his death, of all he dies possess'd of.
Convey him hence and on our longboat's side
Or till the Destinies do cut his thread of life.
Sir, this young fellow's mother could: whereupon
I have made my way through more impediments
Though in this place most master wear no breeches,
It is the quality o' the climate.
Most wisely hath Ulysses here discover'd
Say, by this token, I desire his company
Things to strike honour sad. Bid him recount
nay-word how to know one another: I come to her in
Flourish. Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, AGRIPPA, with DOMITIUS ENOBARBUS, and others
And fearful, as these strange eruptions are.
are they gone, and there they intend to sup.
Exit
Which has no need of you; be gone:
I'll through and through you! and, thou great-sized coward,
But now, Baptists, to your younger daughter:
That for a toy, a thing of no regard,
Now, my lord constable!
I'll not sleep neither: this mortal house I'll ruin,
And train our intellects to vain delight.
To creep in at mine eyes. Well, let it be.
Show me a villain that hath done a rape,
Exit BIONDELLO
As he is subtle, and as prone to mischief
Exeunt all but GLOUCESTER and KENT
Trust not to rotten planks: do you misdoubt
away all night.
SCENE IV. The same. A hall in Timon's house.
My ears have not yet drunk a hundred words
Will he conduct you through the heart of France,
Three crabbed months had sour'd themselves to death,
I had rather you did lack than I, my lord,
Come hither, Aaron; I'll deceive them both:
laid on him by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
I'll give you gold enough.
And what may follow,
Thou hadst been toss'd from wrong to injury,
enough in the shoulders, you care not who sees your
Re-enter a third Citizen
cork into a hogshead. And then for the
Be closed in our household's monument.
And fair purgation to the world, than malice,
Are to the jealous confirmations strong
Dost thou hear me, Hal?
The lees and dregs of a flat tamed piece;
They shall have wars and pay for their presumption.
That say thou art a man: Diana's lip
Your eyes are lode-stars; and your tongue's sweet air
turned into a maid; for they are all girdled with
That thus delays my promised supply
Mine eyes should sparkle like the beaten flint;
Why wither not the leaves the sap being gone?
Let me alone with him.
Let's speak To him.
No, sir.
That is too much presumption on thy part:
An earthly paragon! Behold divineness
Repair to the Capitol.
He can come no other way but by this hedge-corner.
'Twas very strange.
Yet let 'em look they glory not in mischief,
Is poison to thy stomach.
Doth fat me with the very thoughts of it!
O, good sir, I do.
Marcellus and Bernardo, on their watch,
Unrip'dst the bowels of thy sovereign's son.
Dear sovereign, pardon to me.
[Aside]	It is my mistress:
in my tent.
knocking out his brains.
What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murder me?
him.
He will do all in all as Hastings doth.
Why, how now, Claudio! whence comes this restraint?
O, ho! entreat her!
And shall forget the office of our hand,
In all this noble bevy, has brought with her
If I keep them, I needs must lose myself;
and vengeance for't
Saving your tale, Petruchio, I pray,
The precious treasure of his eyesight lost:
Nor read the secrets in't.
New customs,
It waves you to a more removed ground:
To say 'she is a goodly lady,' and
Enter HORNER, the Armourer, and his man PETER, guarded
Where every something, being blent together,
Enter CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS
person, kneeling at our feet, but a weak and
Pass no further.
Young Arthur is alive: this hand of mine
Which, too much minded by herself alone,
Welcome, my lord, to this brave town of York.
Say thou, shall call her mistress.' So he nodded,
And to the battle came he; where he did
Sweet York, be patient. Hear me, gentle liege.
And give direction: and do but see his vice;
When you are by at night. I do beseech you--
Dost thou deny thy father, cursed drab?
Why, she's neither fish nor flesh; a man knows not
Her mother's, I have heard.
If thou wilt not, befall what may befall,
For more assurance that a living prince
As I am made by my poor lord and thee!
Nay, follow him, gentlemen; see the issue of his search.
So early walking did I see your son:
Too long a pause for that which you find there.
Add thus much more, that no Italian priest
night, when thou spokest of Pigrogromitus, of the
Pursued my humour not pursuing his,
You should be lord ambassador from the emperor,
Of burning cressets; and at my birth
If I have thanks, it is a dear expense:
lay knife aboard; but she, good soul, had as lief
And what not done, that thou hast cause to rue,
more tractable.
If the first that did the edict infringe
Blows fair from land: they stay for nought at all
Hubert, keep this boy. Philip, make up:
Destroy'd themselves, and lost the realm of France!
this man made you, sir?
My spirit and my place have in them power
Cast by their grave beseeming ornaments,
not to think what I can, nor indeed I cannot think,
Exeunt
[Aside]  How from the finny subject of the sea
And so the lion vanished.
Of thirty sail: and now they do restem
You do appear before them: if they shall chance,
Some way to leave him.
How should I your true love know
Yet, wooing thee, I found thee of more value
His seal'd commission, left in trust with me,
Exit GLOUCESTER
Let me stay at thine apperil, Timon: I come to
How! wear the garland! dost thou mean the crown?
Not too hot:
Keep there: now talk at pleasure of your safety.
Therefore my son i' the ooze is bedded, and
And says that once more I shall interchange
One word more; I charge thee
de nails, de arma, de bilbow.
When thousands weep more than did laugh at it.
Though bladed corn be lodged and trees blown down;
And to be boy eternal.
Past and to come, that you do change this purpose,
to stay within: I like his money well. O, here he comes.
No, my good knight;
Nay, let them go, a couple of quiet ones.
Never, Iago: Like to the Pontic sea,
Accept of him, or else you do me wrong:
May suffer alteration, on mine honour,
impossible,--
How much money must I have?
Was stay'd by accident, and yesternight
The unknown Ajax.
Would be her lord? or shall I say, her uncle?
God keep me so! Our heralds go with him:
O Phoebus, hadst thou never given consent
Dishonourable boy!
And taste Lord Timon's bounty? he outgoes
Who is the suitor? who is the suitor?
Enter EDWARD and RICHARD
Cease, gentle queen, these execrations,
that I have sent her, by her own command
That's not so good now.
We must supplant those rough rug-headed kerns,
you?
And so, with thanks and pardon to you all,
Lest I surcease to honour mine own truth
Come on, come on; where is your boar-spear, man?
I am bound to you.
Corn for the rich men only: with these shreds
As maids of thirteen do of puppy-dogs!
For her, my lord,
To smother up his beauty from the world,
that, cousin, let him be a handsome fellow, or else
How if a' will not stand?
Item, Sauce,. . . 4d.
time in you?
Enter VENTIDIUS
death affright?
He did solicit you in free contempt
constable, and my name is Elbow: I do lean upon
Why she dares not come over to thee.
Grecian, thou dost not use me courteously,
There had she not been long, but she became
And from her derogate body never spring
A messenger from the galleys.
He is simply the most active gentleman of France.
But an unkind self, that itself will leave,
Men's prayers then would seek you, not their fears.
Thy spirits all of comfort! fare thee well.
That hast this fortune on me? If thou'rt noble,
ACT III
entreaty, and himself to the drink.
Not?
'Gainst the Pannonians and Dalmatians,
We made each other but so late ago.
Thee thither in a whirlwind. If thou wilt,
Madam, what should I do?
That, like a jewel, has hung twenty years
That all with one consent praise new-born gawds,
finds no other advantage in the process but only the
your hand to the buttery-bar and let it drink.
Marry, come up, my dish of chastity with rosemary and bays!
Then nightly sings the staring owl, 	Tu-whit;
To hear true shrift. Come, madam, let's away.
heart, that there shall not be one spot of love in't.
Nay, rather persuade him to hold his hands.
Come, fool, come; try me in thy paper.
jerkin, a pair of old breeches thrice turned, a pair
Well, I am your theme: you have the start of me; I
have when you chid at Sir Proteus for going
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
Poor breathing orators of miseries!
My Lord Bassanio, since you have found Antonio,
To make this contract grow: but barren hate,
We hate alike:
There is not one word apt, one player fitted:
thee often, and I re-tell thee again and again, I
Sad, high, and working, full of state and woe,
The forlorn soldier, that so nobly fought,
Our hands are full of business: let's away;
Look, what will serve is fit: 'tis once, thou lovest,
True; for he bears it not about him, 'tis hid.
And no one else but the deliver'd empress.
Her worth, being mounted on the wind,
Noble madam,
Mine hair be fixed on end, as one distract;
He puts the handkerchief from him; and it drops
To woo so fair a dame to be his wife,
How were they lost? what treachery was used?
Call in the messengers sent from the Dauphin.
DON
What shall be done to him?
turn witch.
Such attribution should the Douglas have,
Beckoning with fiery truncheon my retire;
A dog of that house shall move me to stand: I will
The melting spirits of women, then, countrymen,
Or as the south to the septentrion.
To cool a gipsy's lust.
You'll heat my blood: no more.
you much mirth.
Yea, and elsewhere, so far as my coin would stretch;
I know not, mighty sovereign, but by guess.
I will praise any man that will praise me; though it
Or hand of man hath done; therefore I keep it
O Buckingham, take heed of yonder dog!
Come hither, sirrah:
O gracious emperor! O gentle Aaron!
Undoing all, as all had never been!
Wrinkles forbid!
This will so fright them both that they will kill
Nay, he reserved a blanket, else we had been all shamed.
It hath pleased the devil drunkenness to give place
Though sometimes it show greatness, courage, blood,--
And not retire: let me have your good will.
Therefore, my lord,--
An if thou hast the mettle of a king,
For all the world
Yourself, assisted with your honour'd friends,
That did affright the air at Agincourt?
live long.
That what you cannot as you would achieve,
incharitable dog!
Never was seen so black a day as this:
Under his chance: if we draw lots, he speeds;
I will try thee. Tell me this: who begot thee?
Caius Marcius Coriolanus!
We are no tyrant, but a Christian king;
To dash our late decree in parliament
To his experienced tongue, yet let it please both,
Though you and all the rest so grossly led
Take all myself.
She's well, but bade me not commend her to you.
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul,
And do not shear the fleeces that I graze:
Bestride the rock; the tide will wash you off,
And the device he bears upon his shield
Go home, John Rugby; I come anon.
The queen, madam,
My dear lord,--
And bear with mildness my misfortune's cross;
Corrupted, and exempt from ancient gentry?
Because you want the grace that others have,
Still have I tarried.
Bid her send me presently a thousand pound:
Exit
Who pour their bounty on her; and her gain
he could not compass.
to pluck him off me, how he swore, how she prayed,
[Within]  My lord, is the lady ready?
The sons of York, thy betters in their birth,
To know the reason of this strange restraint.
How much your chain weighs to the utmost carat,
Indeed, you shall not.
In brief, he led me to the gentle duke,
O, that his fault should make a knave of thee,
That's strange.
A bawd, sir? fie upon him! he will discredit our mystery.
This music mads me; let it sound no more;
Not a word of me. All that I will tell you is, that
Their heads to their foundations; though the treasure
Sweat drops of gallant youth in our rich fields!
But mine is made the prologue to their play;
In simple and low things to prince it much
Exeunt
If not Achilles, nothing.
For women's fear and love holds quantity;
My lord, I shall reply amazedly,
Do Caesar what he can. Know, sir, that I
Stay not; fly, whilst thou art blest and free:
Becomes a sun and makes your son a shadow:
She might ha' been a grandam ere she died:
Where I will write. All may be well enough.
Enter KENT
My lord, this would not be believed in Venice,
Stern Falconbridge commands the narrow seas;
to master Jew's?
me to 't. But they say the duke will be here
Let them accuse me by invention, I
I was sure your lordship did not give it me.
The warlike service he has done, consider; think
As both of you--God pardon it!--have done,
Turns head against the lion's armed jaws,
He shall see none to fear.
Look to't, think on't, I do not use to jest.
Ay, to a niggardly host, and more sparing guest:
wing. Therefore when he sees reason of fears, as we
That I may venture to depart alone.
O, my offence is rank it smells to heaven;
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
though thy little finger be armed in a thimble.
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
He hath no daughters, sir.
I lose your company: therefore forbear awhile.
fight a blow. O Lord, my heart!
Cannot amend me; society is no comfort
You, sir, what trade are you?
Have we in hiding us? This way, the Romans
Thou art the ruins of the noblest man
Who calls so loud?
Urge it no more, my Lord Northumberland.
To threaten me with death is most unlawful.
Of our so frank donation. Well, what then?
But, as the devil would have it, three misbegotten
By heaven, methinks it were an easy leap,
Made use and fair advantage of his days;
A foot of honour better than I was;
betwixt my uncle and one of the emperial's men.
Further in the proceeding.
Then Warwick disannuls great John of Gaunt,
Think, speak, cast, write, sing, number, ho!
swaggering accent sharply twanged off, gives manhood
That hath a stomach; and such a one that dare
They took his head, and on the gates of York
Exit
Tax of impudence,
Alarum within
Upon our territories; and have already
Is for a precious creature: as she's rare,
Thy brother Marcus tenders on thy lips:
Nay, nay, Octavia, not only that,--
Dumain was at my service, and his sword:
So please you, madam,
Their sense thus weak, lost with their fears
Or ere I'll weep. O fool, I shall go mad!
Your gaoler shall deliver you the keys
This may prove worse than hanging.
I'll not believe but they ascend the sky,
Marry, by these special marks: first, you have
Then, window, let day in, and let life out.
Fie, fie upon thee, strumpet!
when his disguise and he is parted, tell me what a
To your free heart, I do return those talents,
Whose sting is sharper than the sword's;
See't shalt thou never. Fellows, hold the chair.
been as proper?
As I intend to prosper and repent,
Because that I familiarly sometimes
I ask, that I might waken reverence,
I serve you, madam:
Assail them with the army of the king.
Bloody; 'tis necessary he should die:
You shall not write my praise.
He thinks, with Jove in heaven, or somewhere else,
SCENE II. The island. Before PROSPERO'S cell.
Go, wind, to wind, there turn and change together.
Speak it here:
and perturbation follows her.
Beseech your highness, give us better credit:
My lord, I know not, I, nor can I guess,
That babies lulls asleep! the smiles of knaves
I did so.
You shall not need, my fellow peers of Tyre,
They have o'erlook'd me and divided me;
Are in the field: a mighty strength they carry.
But bootless is your sight: he will not speak To any.
And you are her labour'd scholar. Come, queen o'
And York as fast upon your grace exclaims;
I'll venture so much of my hawk or hound,
To try a larger fortune.
would once use our hearts, whereby we might express
nor he durst not give me the Lie Direct; and so we
burn; that good pasture makes fat sheep, and that a
There's nothing level in our cursed natures,
Now, perjured Henry! wilt thou kneel for grace,
With sunken wreck and sunless treasuries.
And was beheaded. Thus the Mortimers,
thou make minstrels of us, look to hear nothing but
More than cool reason ever comprehends.
That stain'd their fetlocks in his smoking blood,
Why, Suffolk, England knows thine insolence.
not fail her.
My reverence, calling, nor divinity,
Shall make their way seem short, as mine hath done
To hunt this day: the boy Fidele's sickness
wishes:'--her very phrases! By your leave, wax.
All purity, all trial, all observance;
She was a charmer, and could almost read
apparel fits your thief.
And his unbookish jealousy must construe
My nephew Mutius' deeds do plead for him
By nothing; for this is no oath:
That to my foes this body must be prey,
Your princely father and my loving lord!
have not seen these two days.
But may not be so credulous of cure,
Who dies, that bears not one spurn to their graves
Or else what lets it but he would be here?
Save you, fair queen!
Change slander to remorse; that is some good:
this night in a dance: and if he found her
It is not very strange; for mine uncle is king of
Who have--as who have not, that their great stars
Whispers the Masquers
Is to be frighted out of fear; and in that mood
Boy, what sign is it when a man of great spirit
And spirits walk and ghosts break up their graves,
Discover where thy mistress is at once,
An if I fly, I am not Talbot's son:
To insinuate, flatter, bow, and bend my limbs:
And I, tough senior, as an appertinent title to your
I'll tell you what, my cousin Buckingham,--
Exit ROBIN
out of my prains what is the name of the other
In faith, I will, la; never trust me else.
The prince must think me tardy and remiss,
staring on one another, to tear the cases of their
Our purpose to them: and to our noble consul
The sugar'd game before thee. But myself,
None but the king?
It shall be done.
By smiling pick-thanks and base news-mongers,
Enter DERBY to RICHMOND in his tent, Lords and others attending
For I dare so far free him--made him fear'd,
An old Italian fox is not so kind, my boy.
Be merry, Kate. Some water, here; what, ho!
Go to, go to.
And there I stood amazed for a while,
That not another comfort like to this
Strains his young nerves and puts himself in posture
Out of the great respect they bear to beauty,
But since I cannot, be it known to you
They are at it, hark! Proud Diomed, believe,
Mock not, that I affect the untraded oath;
nothing but rail; nor no railing in a known discreet
The trees, though summer, yet forlorn and lean,
He is return'd in his opinions; which
The sooner her vile thoughts to stead,
Against Aumerle we will enforce his trial.
[Aside]	I may perceive
And, all my powers, address your love and might
craftily qualified too, and, behold, what innovation
We must extend our notice. Our dear son,
And sooner dance upon a bloody pole
Well, sir, to do you courtesy,
him a coward. And, I pray thee now, tell me for
Not to be other than one thing, not moving
One desperate grief cures with another's languish:
Duchess of Burgundy.
He's but a country gentleman;
I should so.
O, 'tis our setter: I know his voice. Bardolph,
Both who he is and why he cometh hither
I fear there will a worse come in his place.
[Reads]  ''Gamut' I am, the ground of all accord,
MIRANDA sleeps
Their bands i' the vaward are the Antiates,
gross as a mountain, open, palpable. Why, thou
Nor fortune made such havoc of my means,
Cannot conceive nor name thee!
Hath your grace ne'er a brother like you? Your
Antonio, I am married to a wife
To use my wings. Impute it not a crime
He knew me as a wife. As this is true,
Fie, fie, how franticly I square my talk,
I care not.
When blows have made me stay, I fled from words.
DON
Her foes shake like a field of beaten corn,
inviting, which many my near occasions did urge me
I will repeal thee, or, be well assured,
My lord, you have my voice to it; the fault's
O, that this too too solid flesh would melt
In that he did the thing for which he died:
What means that trump?
Thou art clerkly, thou art clerkly, Sir John. Was
N'avez vous pas deja oublie ce que je vous ai enseigne?
May take off some extremity, which to read
I am about, let them depart.
If the great gods be just, they shall assist
Nor I, my lord, in faith.
That govern us below.
have named uncertain; the time itself unsorted; and
Now civil wounds are stopp'd, peace lives again:
Between two blades, which bears the better temper:
Enter a Herald
That we may know the traitors and the truth!
Descended from the Duke of Clarence' house,
Exit
Danish march. A flourish. Enter KING CLAUDIUS,  QUEEN GERTRUDE, POLONIUS, OPHELIA, ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and others
To the noble heart. What's gone and what's past help
the tadpole, the wall-newt and the water; that in
Our gracious brother, I will go with them:
We, ignorant of ourselves,
From tawny Spain lost in the world's debate.
My name is Pistol call'd.
bereave you o' the deeds too, if she call your
No, no, I am a rascal; a scurvy railing knave:
Listen great things:--Brutus and Cassius
Topas, do not think I am mad: they have laid me
Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you?
Avoid what's grown than question how 'tis born.
I having ta'en the forfeit. Whereupon--
Come here himself to question our delay;
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
The dangers of the time. You swore to us,
As feel in his own fall; for men, like butterflies,
I know you. Where's the king?
Amen, amen! Go on, good Eglamour,
I will not fail you.
What, marry, may she?
I know't too well.
Why?
reverend youth; and I praise God for you.
in the next room.
And--would it were not so!--you are my mother.
Not like a formal man.
Are of a most select and generous chief in that.
Re-enter AUTOLYCUS
The single and peculiar life is bound,
A special virtue: for then she need not be washed
death's-bed--Got deliver to a joyful resurrections!
He has strangled
Exit
Double and treble admonition, and still forfeit in
What, Buckingham and Clifford, are ye so brave? And
But all so soon as the all-cheering sun
Having seen but him and Caliban: foolish wench!
The Christian prince, King Henry, were he here.
scruple of a scruple, no obstacle, no incredulous
brothers in filching, and in Calais they stole a
That e'er I sigh'd for: pity move my father
Exeunt COSTARD and JAQUENETTA
Truly, I am so glad you have nobody here.
Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perish, Tranio,
Leaps o'er the vaunt and firstlings of those broils,
Well then the peace,
How came these things to pass?
With riotous feeders, when our vaults have wept
To answer that, I should confess to you.
with a piece of toasted cheese.
The cuckoo then, on every tree,
In argument and proof of which contract,
SCENE V. OLIVIA's garden.
Oppress'd with wrongs and therefore full of fears,
Enter the Ghosts of RIVERS, GRAY, and VAUGHAN
Princes have but their tides for their glories,
This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.
Boult, has she any qualities?
Whose father then, as men report
Exit Stephano
If you dare venture in your own behalf,
But not for that dream I on this strange course,
The lamb will never cease to follow him.
You men of Angiers, and my loving subjects--
Enter GOWER, before the monument of MARINA at Tarsus
That, when he plays at tables, chides the dice
For 'twas that hand that gave away my heart.
Hearts of most hard temper
His perishing root with the increasing vine!
Faint-hearted boy, arise, and look upon her.
Give me my armour.
Who hath a story ready for your ear.
Readins, of Maidenhead, of Colebrook, of horses and
customary gown.
Nay, follow'd him, till he had melted from
One, Kate, that you must kiss, and be acquainted with.
corrupted the youth of the realm in erecting a
My gracious sovereign?
Are they so? God bless them and make them his servants!
For torturers ingenious: it is I
Of comfort, kingdom, kindred, freedom, life.
We'll all present ourselves, dis-horn the spirit,
I will, my lord.
This doth not so, for she divideth us:
Why, as I told thee, 'tis a custom with him,
The hue of dungeons and the suit of night;
I think I have done myself wrong, have I not?
Have lost their quality, and that this day
Dabbled in blood; and he squeak'd out aloud,
Here is a letter from Queen Hecuba,
To scourge the ingratitude that despiteful Rome
Why, very well, then,--
I will not seal your knowledge with showing them. I
daughter of Leonato.
So are those crisped snaky golden locks
Religious in mine error, I adore
Than by self-offences weighing.
At Chertsey monastery this noble king,
My language! heavens!
By all the reverend fathers of the land
Exit
Let's have one other gaudy night: call to me
Hail!
Fed in heart, whose flames aspire
Is much beyond our loss. Our hint of woe
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and two Gaolers
Leap o'er the walls for refuge in the field.
Some say he is with the Emperor of Russia; other
Enter ABHORSON
And at the other is my servant Catesby
For he hath heard of our confederacy,
Hail, lords! I am return'd your soldier,
The king would speak with Cornwall; the dear father
Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee?
Six years we banish him, and he shall go.
Albeit considerations infinite
Ay, an you had any eye behind you, you might see
To line his enterprise: but if you go,--
To rib her cerecloth in the obscure grave.
My father had a mole upon his brow.
perplexity, yet did not this cruel-hearted cur shed
By Gis and by Saint Charity,
Enter HELENA and Clown
Content thyself awhile. By the mass, 'tis morning;
But there's no remedy.
Figured quite o'er with burning meteors.
And then I need not crave his courtesy.
Great God of heaven, say Amen to all!
For thou hast made it like an humble suppliant.
Even such a body: here I am Antony:
I trust to take of truest Thisby sight.
Sir, in this audience,
How many shallow bauble boats dare sail
Proud Saturnine, interrupter of the good
counterfeit of a man who hath not the life of a man:
Makes me to ask you for my purse? It grieves me
They are, my lord, without the palace gate.
That in their chains fetter'd the kingly lion
We'll over-reach the greybeard, Gremio,
More fond on her than she upon her love:
As heaven shall work in me for thine avail,
But to have divinity preached there! did you ever
Come, let them be opinioned.
Were a sufficient briber for his life.
My will, not all the world:
Is, that by sudden floods and fall of waters,
take note of it; and assure thyself, there is no
and Barnardine. Here is in our prison a common
Faith, the priest was good enough, for all the old
Do it in notes.
let ten thousand devils come against me, and give me
Lord Talbot, do not so dishonour me:
Round about the cauldron go;
Under thy own life's key: be cheque'd for silence,
Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note;
Lady, you utter madness, and not sorrow.
There's another: why may not that be the skull of a
Your light grows dark by losing of your eyes.
Thine own true knight,
Do you know me, sir? am I Dromio? am I your man?
But thou dost swear only to be forsworn;
To let me see them and to make me know
Strangers in court do take her for the queen:
But who comes here, led by a lusty Goth?
Stop thy unhallow'd toil, vile Montague!
to my mistress.
Things small as nothing, for request's sake only,
This woman's an easy glove, my lord; she goes off
Well, sir, this gentleman is come to me,
Young lad, come forth; I have to say with you.
A torch for me: let wantons light of heart
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts,
Most mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin:
If half thy outward graces had been placed
Pray, sir, put your sword up, if you please.
[Within]  Cry, Trojans, cry!
him from't.
there were no living near her; she would infect to
Is it not more than shame to shame it so?
I'll not bereave you of your servant.
That time, acquaintance, custom and condition
his love, his mistress; and I set him every day to
In this last tempest. I perceive these lords
your master is hard at door; if he bid you set it
And the protector's wife, beloved of him?
For well you know here comes in embassy
The cannons have their bowels full of wrath,
For better times to come. Friar, advise him;
Doth much excuse the appertaining rage
the name of good by his government. How far is his
As Caesar's death hour, nor no instrument
There is a brief how many sports are ripe:
That was he
that touch pitch will be defiled: the most peaceable
Taste of your wine and see what cates you have;
Ruling in large and ample empery
Sir, I may tell it you, I think I have
As of her tongue she oft bestows on me,
Well, daughter, and you gentle-women all,
O, who hath any cause to mourn but I?
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
I'ld whistle her off and let her down the wind,
Are you so hasty now? well, all is one.
No question.
Loosing upon thee, in the name of justice,
Be resident in men like one another
Lest thou increase the number of the dead;
Sir Smile, his neighbour: nay, there's comfort in't
She's dead as earth. Lend me a looking-glass;
flinch, chide me for it.
Thou art the cap of all the fools alive.
This whimpled, whining, purblind, wayward boy;
thou the next night following enjoy not Desdemona,
Even with the dearest blood your bodies bear.
But, heaven be thank'd, it is but voluntary.
I do not strain at the position,--
What's thine own name?
'If,' quoth he, 'I for this had been committed,
feeling of thy speech: I will, out of thine own
He may, my lord; has wherewithal: in him
Though Cassio did some little wrong to him,
For the whole space that's in the tyrant's grasp,
security enough to make fellowships accurst: much
And we must yearn therefore.
If more thou dost perceive, let me know more;
He is forsworn, if e'er those eyes of yours
Aloof from the entire point. Will you have her?
So should the murder'd look, and so should I,
This head of safety; and withal to pry
Caius, coming. If he do, i' faith, and find any
I have't. It is engender'd. Hell and night
Not far, one Muli lives, my countryman;
He calls us rebels, traitors; and will scourge
With walking once about the quadrangle,
Of Mantua, sir? marry, God forbid!
To me, sir? why, you gave no gold to me.
beast be lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at
Before me! look, where she comes.
Wrapp'd in a paper, which contain'd the name
An it shall please you to break up
Come, my Hippolyta: what cheer, my love?
And I mine too, good Lord!
Than those I shed for him. What was he like?
Pish!
Do as thou wilt, for I have done with thee.
Whiles I go tell my lord the emperor
And when I told thee he was of my counsel
Kent from me, she hath lost her best man, and exhort
A king, woe's slave, shall kingly woe obey.
nothing. Cleopatra, catching but the least noise of
My master preaches patience to him and the while
Now, out of doubt Antipholus is mad,
men being in love have then a nobility in their
Win you this city without stroke or wound;
Which I hope well is not enrolled there;
At requiring;
Bardolph, a soldier, firm and sound of heart,
Set on toward Swinstead: to my litter straight;
And not the punishment. Therefore indeed, my father,
I say again, hath made a gross revolt;
hath the jealous fool to her husband! I suspect
Will make or man or woman madly dote
But we shall meet, and break our minds at large.
He bears the sentence well that nothing bears
They have dispatch'd with Pompey, he is gone;
By whom I grant she lives. 'Tis now the time
say I am a magician. Therefore, put you in your
Bore the commission of my place and person;
Disgraced me in my happy victories,
For putting on so new a fashion'd robe.
My sighs and tears and will not once relent?
Enter THESEUS, HIPPOLYTA, PHILOSTRATE, and Attendants
May be the lady: thou shalt know the man
so free, so kind, so apt, so blessed a disposition,
But, leaving this, what is your grace's pleasure?
Well, be gone: I will not miss her.
Our vessel is of Tyre, in it the king;
Ye are a baggage: the Slys are no rogues; look in
You must contrary me! marry, 'tis time.
Thy substance, valued at the highest rate,
To bind me, or undo me; one of them.
By day's approach look to be visited.
How! turn thy back and run?
But Saturnine? Full well, Andronicus,
Had you such leisure in the time of death
A spur to valiant and magnanimous deeds,
Exeunt
Re-enter HORTENSIO, with his head broke
Nay, pray, be patient: if you refuse your aid
that oath, let me turn monster: therefore, my
There is an art which in their piedness shares
Exeunt all but CERIMON
I tell thee, man, 'tis better with me now
In thy dumb action will I be as perfect
With the brave beast: so far he topp'd my thought,
So much they spur their expedition.
you must go visit the good lady that lies in.
Or as the Destinies decree.
To prick the sides of my intent, but only
I thank my memory, I yet remember
Good lords, although my will to give is living,
Come I too late?
I have a suit unto your lordship.
This is all, indeed, la! but I'll ne'er put my
bottle of sack: our soldiers shall march through;
By doing deeds of hospitality:
It be to do thee service.
Without some pleasure now. What sport tonight?
How to prevent the fiend, and to kill vermin.
ANTIPHOLUS
Clifford, repent in bootless penitence.
That will not be denied your highness presence:
Her name is Margery, indeed: I'll be sworn, if thou
Why, all the boys in Venice follow him,
or unsafe circumstance--What can be said? Nothing
Music, make their welcome!
I come to pierce it, or to give thee mine.
By the vow of mine order I warrant you, if my
Nay, 'tis most credible; we here received it
Barely in title, not in revenue.
like bloody villains.
So, weeping, smiling, greet I thee, my earth,
So you do condescend to help me now.
Ay, marry, will we; therefore get ye gone.
And doubt not, sir, but she will well excuse
absent,--and there shall appear such seeming truth
My brother Robert? old sir Robert's son?
But sweeter than the lids of Juno's eyes
Stays here longer.
Then this is mine opinion: that King Lewis
Where's Simple, my man? Can you tell, cousin?
That defence thou hast, betake thee to't: of what
He may command me as my sovereign;
Whose bosom was my crownet, my chief end,--
Come, bring her away.
Thou dost thyself and all our Troy deceive.
In congregations, to yawn, be still and wonder,
Our inland from the pilfering borderers.
I tell thee, my master is become a hot lover.
O Jew! an upright judge, a learned judge!
As now we meet. You have deceived our trust,
I am as well acquainted here as I was in our house
To make these doubts all even.
Prithee, be not sad,
Have you yourselves, Somerset, Buckingham,
In any of our towns of garrison.
Our shows are more than will; for still we prove
For so I will. Mine eyes grow dim. Farewell,
Be govern'd by your knowledge, and proceed
Be yoked with his that did betray the Best!
Why, Warwick, who should do the duke to death?
Do not repent these things, for they are heavier
Uncle, Adieu: O, let the hours be short
Let me be privileged by my place and message,
than the fools' zanies.
Will furnish me. But soft! how many months
Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day?
O villany, villany!
But only Sycorax my dam and she;
This is a double honour, Burgundy:
To be a party in this injury.
And will upon the instant put thee to't:
I heard no letter from my master since
Tell them how Edward put to death a citizen,
He gave the stablishment of Egypt; made her
Because I am the store-house and the shop
And never in my life, I do protest,
To make him even o'er the time he has lost.
The Turk with a most mighty preparation makes for
I heard your guilty rhymes, observed your fashion,
To tell my love unto his dumb deaf trunk,
Because they died in honour's lofty bed.
In the extremity of great and little,
Anon comes Pyramus, sweet youth and tall,
There's difference in no persons.
Most holy sir, I thank you.
And if I die, no soul shall pity me:
With marriage wherefore was he mock'd,
Bring me but to the very brim of it,
joy were now become a loss, cries 'O, thy mother,
marry, thus, my lord: my dear lord and most esteemed
Throws down a letter
Sirs, stop their mouths, let them not speak to me;
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope!
Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.
the count, have I run into this danger. Yet who
While I go to the goldsmith's house, go thou
To swearing and stern looks, diffused attire
the utmost of your having: back.
Gobbo, use your legs, take the start, run away. My
In faith, I do not: come hither once again.
You are but newly planted in your throne;
In which addition, hail, most worthy thane!
I blame you not;
His daughter meanly have I match'd in marriage;
If heaven be pleased that you must use me ill,
Please you, deliberate a day or two.
That I was disdainful, and that I had my good wit
Master Page, and eke Cavaleiro Slender, go you
Whilst you abide here.
white spot about her.
Exeunt PAGE, FORD, and SIR HUGH EVANS
thee; but being assured none but myself could move
A parasite, a keeper back of death,
Stand these poor people's friend, and urge the king
Serving of becks and jutting-out of bums!
God grant that some, less noble and less loyal,
Farewell.
a beard of the general's cut and a horrid suit of
I'll not be by the while: my liege, farewell:
Light seeking light doth light of light beguile:
Go, go, be gone, to save your ship from wreck,
stratagem.
Lie like one lump before him, to be fashion'd
Which he counts but a trifle.
I knew him, and I know him; so I leave him
Enter ANGELO and ESCALUS
And the imperial votaress passed on,
O, let us yet be merciful.
Why, look you there! look, how it steals away!
you.
Comes dear'd by being lack'd. This common body,
You bear a gentle mind, and heavenly blessings
Be noble to myself: but, hark thee, Charmian.
Those suns of glory, those two lights of men,
That's a certain text.
Compare our faces and be judge yourself.
SCENE II. Tyre. A room in the palace.
Long after this, when Henry the Fifth,
That if again this apparition come,
One day shall crown the alliance on't, so please you,
And light thee on thy way to Mantua:
At sea, I think.
They say, that they have measured many a mile
What now remains, my lords, for us to do
Mark but my fall, and that that ruin'd me.
And that a winged Mercury did bear:
Why, I will see thee at Philippi, then.
Be sent for, to return from France with speed;
Thinks all is writ he speken can;
An outward honour for an inward toil;
Sir,
thine, Ireland is thine, France is thine, and Harry
I warrant thou art a merry fellow and carest for nothing.
Nor did he soil the fact with cowardice--
Quoth my master:
So thou wilt send thy gentle heart before,
For I profess not talking; only this--
Never in your life, I think; unless you see canary
Pay recompense, if you will grant my suit.
Enter CORIOLANUS with Patricians
Of no more bondage be, to where they are made,
Is Lucius general of the forces?
If I have kill'd the issue of your womb,
Beat--
'D sol re,' one clef, two notes have I:
Misused ere used, by time misused o'erpast.
To monarchize, be fear'd and kill with looks,
So get you hence in peace; and tell the Dauphin
No lady closer; for I well believe
For he hath still been tried a holy man.
Yet have I left a daughter.
Exeunt
Nay, let her languish
I swear--
Behold her that gave aim to all thy oaths,
Sir Nicholas Gawsey hath for succor sent,
First, Marcus Brutus, will I shake with you;
Ere he should thus have ventured.
--thou must think there's a necessity in't,--and
thought she was a woman and was turned into a cold
hare-lip; mildews the white wheat, and hurts the
Reposing on a cushion.
sun practising behavior to his own shadow this half
Than bring a burthen of dishonour home
With all my heart I thank thee for my father!
Truly, sir, to wear out their shoes, to get myself
They dropp'd, as by a thunder-stroke. What might,
like an impediment in the current, made it more
More sins for this forgiveness prosper may.
A noble life before a long, and wish
O woful day!
For ever from the world. I had my trial,
How now, Lavinia! Marcus, what means this?
Enter Cupid
Now minutely revolts upbraid his faith-breach;
That the mad Brutus ended: he alone
Why now; as fast as she can marry us.
Till now, I ne'er endured.
end of the ship, to see how the sea flap-dragoned
Then be thou jocund: ere the bat hath flown
undermine you and blow you up.
Why, this's a heavy chance 'twixt him and you,
Your knee, sirrah.
Make it your cause; send down, and take my part!
She hath that ring of yours.
You may deny that you were not the cause
O loyal father of a treacherous son!
My name is Corporal Nym; I speak and I avouch; 'tis
He looks well on't.
Should presently extirpate me and mine
Was that my father that went hence so fast?
The reverent care I bear unto my lord
To whisper Wolsey,--here makes visitation:
his head in the view of Angelo? I may make my case
spoil of me.
Your ships are stay'd at Venice, and the duke,
I'll have that doctor for my bedfellow.
Whoop'd out of Rome. Now this extremity
Than you should such dishonour undergo,
I am glad of it: a knavish speech sleeps in a
Enter HECATE to the other three Witches
Signior Arme--Arme--commends you. There's villany
4. Choristers, singing.
First, to do greetings to thy royal person;
Ourself, my lord protector and the rest
Say, I will love her everlastingly.
We will persuade him, be it possible,
But as this title honours me and mine,
consider, he's an enemy to mankind.
Do hear what we do?
The which will I; not all so much for love
SCENE I. London. An ante-chamber in the KING'S palace.
Have I lived to be carried in a basket, like a
[To KING RICHARD III]
'Tis the times' plague, when madmen lead the blind.
Till that the weary very means do ebb?
shall anon over-read it at your pleasure; where you
I cannot bid you bid my daughter live;
Which, slanderer, he imitation calls,
Eats and drinks
Now happy he whose cloak and cincture can
In speaking for myself. Yet, by your gracious patience,
Ah, foul shrewd news! beshrew thy very heart!
Hang fated o'er men's faults light on thy daughters!
The great prerogative and rite of love,
Aiming, belike, at your interior hatred,
SCENE III. Friar Laurence's cell.
Parts that become thee happily enough
in standing water, between boy and man. He is very
Hath my maid's garments: he upon some action
There is no primer business.
Lord, Lord! to see what folly reigns in us!
I am glad on't with all my heart.--
A light for Monsieur Judas! it grows dark, he may stumble.
And partly credit things that do presage.
Why, sir, they were nothing but about Mistress Anne
Nay, come; for if they do approach the city, we
It is both he and she;
Drawn by report, adventurous by desire,
Whiles thou art waking.
Yea, leave that labour to great Hercules;
Than out of anger can be uttered.
To them for you.
Yet nature is made better by no mean
Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
To pry into the secrets of the state;
In peace there's nothing so becomes a man
forswear him, or else we are all undone.
Enter POLONIUS, ROSENCRANTZ, and GUILDENSTERN
Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.
Sovereign of Egypt, hail!
And in their pale dull mouths the gimmal bit
generally thankful.
Accoutred as I was, I plunged in
That in the rescue of Lavinia
I'll pay thy pleasure then.
The offer likes not: and the nimble gunner
How chance Moonshine is gone before Thisbe comes
am such a tender ass, if my hair do but tickle me,
I may so.
You would have given me your petition, that
My Lord Melun, let this be copied out,
I see you what you are, you are too proud;
That he's a made-up villain.
will do as I may: that is my rest, that is the
Boy! Lucius! Fast asleep? It is no matter;
Now, by my troth, if I had been remember'd,
Patch grief with proverbs, make misfortune drunk
The enemy more mighty than he seems:
Under love's heavy burden do I sink.
nothing handsome about him. In brief, since I do
Humanely taken, all, all lost, quite lost;
He hears with ears.
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
were married. Here comes Beatrice. By this day!
like draught-oxen and make you plough up the wars.
Are these things spoken, or do I but dream?
To enforce the pained impotent to smile.
ANTIPHOLUS
Beguiled me to the very heart of loss.
All comfort that the dark night can afford
And never of the Nevils' noble race.
So will I	if he come under my hatches, I'll never
Affairs of Antony; there did persuade
Thy love's to me religious; else, does err.
Gathering up the pieces
No, indeed, will I not, Pompey; it is not the wear.
I have but this to say,
They're come already from the christening:
Thursday is near; lay hand on heart, advise:
Helen, the mother of great Constantine,
Cesario, by the roses of the spring,
Why, then she lives.
You logger-headed and unpolish'd grooms!
Give me my nightly wearing, and adieu:
To swim, to dive into the fire, to ride
Ay, and a kind one too:
And bear it from me to the empress.
ANTIPHOLUS
'Fly pride,' says the peacock: mistress, that you know.
Enter MISTRESS QUICKLY
complete man.
Keep his brain fuming; Epicurean cooks
How tall was she?
[Aside to CLEOPATRA]  'Tis one of those odd
Give me some help.
Of the young prince, whose honourable thoughts,
Indeed!
And not alone in habit and device,
But more for that in low simplicity
I am giddy; expectation whirls me round.
Marina was she call'd; and at her birth,
By playing it to me with so sour a face.
Revenge upon the cardinal.
The reasons are more potent and heroical:
But match to match I have encounter'd him
We must not make a scarecrow of the law,
Hence, heap of wrath, foul indigested lump,
Happy in this, she is not yet so old
Our people and our peers are both misled,
At an unusual hour?
Against thy entrance.
Or pay you with unthankfulness in thought,
too, howsoever he hath had intelligence.
they hold up Adam's profession.
But to be paddling palms and pinching fingers,
If you dare fight to-day, come to the field;
Whiles thy consuming canker eats his falsehood.
look your grace, has struck the glove which your
You smell this business with a sense as cold
But heaven hath a hand in these events,
That doth belong unto the house of York,
Call him my king by whose injurious doom
Enter VALENTINE
To hear this rich reprisal is so nigh
No thought can think, nor tongue of mortal tell.
Dispatch, I say, and find the forester.
One, two, three: time, time!
Who, as Ulysses says, opinion crowns
My best endeavours shall be done herein.
O, the more angel she,
If you swear still, your recompense is still
The nearer bloody.
That, by the help of these--with Him above
at curfew, and walks till the first cock; he gives
Boblibindo chicurmurco.
Our reasons are so full of good regard
It is now two o'clock: but, let me see, by ten
Never.
and did the third a blessing against his will; if
You are too old, sir; let it satisfy you, you are too old.
She's a gallant lady.
I know of none;
Hast thou forgot thyself? is it so long?
My lord and sovereign, and thy vowed friend,
That it was folly in me, thou mayst say,
As heaven had lent her all his grace;
Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars,
Nay, an you begin to rail on society once, I am
You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things!
general course of action. 'Zounds, an I were now by
Tell him, when that our princely father York
order of law a furred gown to keep him warm; and
Than when these fellows ran about the streets,
Thou drown the sad remembrance of those wrongs
Speak thou for me and tell them what I did.
Sister, you know he promised me a chain;
[Aside to POMPEY]  Pompey, a word.
For we shall presently have need of you.
So Caesar shall not find them.
Your horrible pleasure: here I stand, your slave,
And women too, but innocent and pure;
your prophet the Nazarite conjured the devil into. I
I will but spend a word here in the house,
Too bitter is thy jest.
That I may see again.
O, would I were to die with Salisbury!
Enter another Messenger
I mean, to man, he had not apprehension
Ay, that.
We'll learn our freeness of a son-in-law;
That ever hath but clipp'd his body, is dearer
An you should do it too terribly, you would fright
Enter the Ghosts of the two young Princes
What, I, my lord? No, not for all the world.
I have laid those sheets you bade me on the bed.
Poor man! I know he would not be a wolf,
Any thing, my lord,
curs; throw some of them at me; come, lame me with reasons.
What foolish boldness brought thee to their mercies,
And yours as blunt as the fencer's foils, which hit,
And what in us hath seem'd ridiculous,--
In most rich choice; yet in his idle fire,
Fly, therefore, noble Cassius, fly far off.
In the last conflict, and made plenteous wounds!
seemed sorrow wept to take leave of them, for their
Which of your hands hath not defended Rome,
We met here both to thank and to remember
Come hither, Hubert. O my gentle Hubert,
As long as you or I yet he must die.
Enter LADY CAPULET
I did not, sir:
And made a prey for carrion kites and crows
That longs for every thing that he can come by.
I have a gammon of bacon and two razors of ginger,
Lady mine, proceed.
That you may well perceive I have not wrong'd you,
house, and some to Casca's; some to Ligarius': away, go!
You had more beard when I last saw you; but your
No, madam; so it stead you, I will write
And he hath cut those pretty fingers off,
Are they that I would have thee deal upon:
She could not sway her house, command her followers,
To answer mildly; for they are prepared
To-night I take my leave. This naughty man
Enter IMOGEN
Never did base and rotten policy
Are those my tents where I perceive the fire?
Touching thy spiritual function, not thy life.
By some damn'd hand was robb'd and ta'en away.
Commend a dear thing to you. There is division,
Might be my question.
Attempts her love: I prithee, noble lord,
I am not mad: this hair I tear is mine;
Unarm, Eros; the long day's task is done,
Of Canterbury, accompanied with other
deceived in Angelo! If ever he return and I can
With all kind love, good thoughts, and reverence.
Insisture, course, proportion, season, form,
And mercy then will breathe within your lips,
And therefore look you call me Ganymede.
Then shall the realm of Albion
Madam, depart at pleasure; leave us here.
That done, conduct him to the drunkard's chamber;
Hath he excepted most against my love.
knavery! all the argument is a cuckold and a
Exit HUME
Besides, she did intend confession
Carnally, she says.
The fortune of the day quite turn'd from him,
He lives in fame that died in virtue's cause.
SCENE I. A room in the Garter Inn.
Sorrow would be a rarity most beloved,
For that I do suspect the lusty Moor
Becomes it thee to be thus bold in terms
And come again to me; who, on my life,
Come, we will walk. There's other of our friends
Good madam, patience.
In life but double death, now Gloucester's dead.
I have lost my hopes.
Or daring-hardy as to touch the lists,
If want it be not that she is not he:
Doing the execution and the act
I know not thy mistress; out on thy mistress!'
Exeunt
Which twain have brought her to.
And with thy weapon nothing darest perform!
Born blind, an't please your grace.
That I in rage might shoot them at your faces!
Excels whatever yet you look'd upon
May the world know them?
Exit
Or here or elsewhere to the furthest verge
[To HOLOFERNES]  Monsieur, are you not lettered?
I urged our old acquaintance, and the drops
Nor to betray you any way to sorrow,
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
Till death, that winter, kill it.
That, though I want a kingdom, yet in marriage
Mangle the work of nature and deface
The devil take thy soul!
Kneels
Stay'd me a prisoner in my chamber when
Ay, what else? fear you not her courage.
Do you doubt that?
Whose club kill'd Cerberus, that three-headed canis;
And not to kiss you. A health, gentlemen!
So sweet and voluble is his discourse.
But Hercules himself must yield to odds;
Ah, one that was a woful looker-on
The cause is in my will: I will not come;
Upon the grassy carpet of this plain.
Here comes a man of comfort, whose advice
I will embrace thee in it by and by.
doublet like a rabbit on a spit; or your hands in
To stop effusion of our Christian blood
Lying with simple shells. O Lychorida,
Our radiant queen hates sluts and sluttery.
It was so, sir; for she had a green wit.
As far, my lord, as will fill up the time
Don Pedro is approached.
We may, each wreathed in the other's arms,
And what to her adheres, which follows after,
Hail, all you state of Greece! what shall be done
I am sure you have: speak truth; ye're honest men.
Am I to fear, or none.
Through this palace, with sweet peace;
Sings
None does offend, none, I say, none; I'll able 'em:
O sir, I do; and will repute you ever
Bid them wash their faces
should not be conjoined, charge you, on your souls,
Now die, die, die, die, die.
Where it should guard. O war, thou son of hell,
is wise:' 'Certain,' said she, 'a wise gentleman.'
That every one her own hath garnished
Bind up your hairs.
By gar, 'tis no the fashion of France; it is not
contents, as in part I understand them, are to blame.
He would have weigh'd thy brother by himself
Hath blazed with lights and bray'd with minstrelsy,
And want of wisdom, you, that best should teach us,
Yet left in heaven as small a drop of pity
This senior-junior, giant-dwarf, Dan Cupid;
of an If, as, 'If you said so, then I said so;' and
I would not be the villain that thou think'st
honest Antonio,--O that I had a title good enough
Or--not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Come, come, you are well understood to be a
By need and accident. What train?
As soft as dove's down and as white as it,
How do you, Desdemona?
Listening their fear, I could not say 'Amen,'
With love's light wings did I o'er-perch these walls;
She is stirring, sir: if she will stir hither, I
then she ruminates, then she devises; and what they
I thank your grace for this high courtesy,
Gone already!
With some men else, who think themselves as safe
Methought he was a brother to your daughter:
Have blown me full of maggot ostentation:
Achilles! Achilles! Hector's slain! Achilles.
No.
Why, did you take her in green?
Why, then, this may be yours, for this is but one.
were, I have acquainted you withal, to the end to
We yield our town and lives to thy soft mercy.
ACT III
I come to wive it wealthily in Padua;
bloody and fatal opposite that you could possibly
novelty is only in request; and it is as dangerous
'Tis a wonder, by your leave, she will be tamed so.
I knowing all my peril, thou no art.
lamb when it baes will never answer a calf when he bleats.
Shall I bend low and in a bondman's key,
Meet me and Gratiano
safe: and you must suffer him to take no delight
That dogg'd the mighty army of the Dauphin?
My lodging out. Give him a livery
and so I shall catch the fly, your cousin, in the
more hereafter.
That I despise thee for thy wrongful suit,
That you may know you shall not want, one word.
guests: thou shalt find me tractable to any honest
And a man's life's no more than to say 'One.'
My hunger's gone; but even before, I was
infirmity, that decays the wise, doth ever make the
Jove's accord,
Invite my Lords of Salisbury and Warwick
That I have shot mine arrow o'er the house,
All that are here: some come to take their ease,
More like a soldier than a man o' the church,
Out of his lunacies.
From jealousy!
The Earl of Westmoreland, seven thousand strong,
But might you do't, and do the world no wrong,
Be candidatus then, and put it on,
Out, alas! here comes my master.
In the division of each several crime,
SCENE IV. The same. A street.
If not denounced against us, why should not we
How long is't ago, Jack, since thou sawest thine own knee?
But I have reasons strong and forcible.
Sung by a fair queen in a summer's bower,
No prophet will I trust, if she prove false.
Fare you well, with all my heart.
Away with him! and let her sport herself
And teach them how to war. And you, good yeoman,
Be you my time to bring it to some shape.
Your banish'd honours and restore yourselves
Some means to come to shrift this afternoon;
And you are come in very happy time,
He was expected then,
Immoderately she weeps for Tybalt's death,
What's your Will?
to wars with the women!
And me too, good Lord!
Hold you content. What, man! I know them, yea,
Peace, I say! hear mine host of the Garter. Am I
In faith, I cannot: what would you have me do?
You shall not know by what strange accident
Complain unto the duke of this indignity.
outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we
And princes' courts be fill'd with my reproach.
Fie! what a foolish duty call you this?
A stouter champion never handled sword.
would fain see it once, an please God of his grace
The doors are open; and the surfeited grooms
O miserable age! virtue is not regarded in handicrafts-men.
And I, an ass, am onion-eyed: for shame,
Lives in men's eyes and will to ears and tongues
With something rich about me: from that place
What kind o' man is he?
lads in Eastcheap. They call drinking deep, dyeing
This vault a feasting presence full of light.
that thou wilt be a voluntary mute to my design. Be
Martext. But, Audrey, there is a youth here in the
The wronged Duke of Milan, Prospero:
Enter PHILEMON
Was cursed instrument of his decease.
could not so prosperously be delivered of. I will
A form of strangeness as we pass along:
For if he be not one that truly loves you,
For thou, I fear, hast given me cause to curse,
She conjures: away with her! Would she had never
And so I do, and with his gifts present
for you! here's no vanity! I am as hot as moulten
Encompass'd with thy lustful paramours!
As 'tis reported, so.
Are come to have some conference with his grace.
That Edward still should live! 'True, noble prince!'
If there be devils, would I were a devil,
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Have you not set mine honour at the stake
Invited by your noble self, hath sent
through ford and whirlipool e'er bog and quagmire;
With what great state he heard their embassy,
say 'Get you to heaven, Beatrice, get you to
From Milan did supplant good Prospero;
Good majesty,
An indistinct regard.
Commit myself, my person and the cause.
He will be talking.
You will do aught, this shall you do for me:
No; you'll reveal it.
A very handsome man.
That sure methought her eyes had lost her tongue,
But when from under this terrestrial ball
thinking, he would fain have had it. Then he
That longer you desire the court; as well
And think they are my sons, are none of mine;
He could not stay to pick them in a pile
Well, here he comes.
Who builds his hopes in air of your good looks,
it when I go from home; welcomed home with it when
But art thou not advised, he took some care
He proved best man i' the field, and for his meed
Long time thy shadow hath been thrall to me,
It is a man's voice. Gentle Isabella,
ANTIPHOLUS
I one, my lord:
Of honour'd bones indeed. What should be said?
My lord, I have.
Flower of warriors,
For look how fresh she looks! They were too rough
So long as I am loyal, true and crimeless.
Ready to drop upon me that, when I waked,
Taking him apart
The best, for the innocence.
Exit
How proud, how peremptory, and unlike himself?
And so in progress to be hatch'd and born,
To put on better ere he go to church.
Nay, when? strike now, or else the iron cools.
Who, I? why, he'll answer nobody; he professes not
To anger him we'll have the bear again; and we will
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves;'
And with what wing the staniel cheques at it!
fantasticoes; these new tuners of accents! 'By Jesu,
Come, sir, your passado.
Wise things seem foolish and rich things but poor.
Than may be given you: in few, Ophelia,
No, but there's a woman with maid by him. You have
And whiter than the paper it writ on
She that herself will sliver and disbranch
Alarum
Than when I parted hence, but still subsisting
at: for if, look you, he were my brother, I would
O, my lord,
His own opinion was his law: i' the presence
And let him sign it: we'll away to-night
suddenly call you, come forth, and without any pause
I would I knew thy heart.
We should have found a bloody day of this.
Wept bitterly; and would I might be dead
Shadowing their right under your wings of war:
Pluck'd from my arms perforce and given away
Exit
Because that I am more than common tall,
Or he that makes his generation messes
This bald unjointed chat of his, my lord,
But with the word the time will bring on summer,
That do acknowledge Caesar, should I find them
Talk thy tongue weary; speak
Upon the very naked name of love.
Exit Attendant
And I of him will gather patience.
To be up after midnight and to go to bed then, is
imagination to give them shape, or time to act them
Which is that god in office, guiding men?
Alas, you know, 'tis far from hence to France;
She doth indeed; my daughter says so: and the
Yield, rustic mountaineer.
that only tells a lie and swears it. I cannot be a
Away, good Ned. Falstaff sweats to death,
News, madam;
She is as far high-soaring o'er thy praises
When with a volley of our needless shot,
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
SCENE XII. Another part of the same.
Yet most suspected, as the time and place
That want their leader, scatter up and down
The light and careless livery that it wears
On some apparent danger seen in him
No believing you, indeed, sir. But did you perceive
I am not sick, if Brutus have in hand
Lie drown'd and soak'd in mercenary blood;
Not so big as a round little worm
ass will not mend his pace with beating; and, when
Those prisoners you shall keep.
When I came hither, I was lord high constable
Sir, my mistress sends you word
In measure rein thy joy; scant this excess.
Some six or seven, who did hide their faces
And yet so fast asleep.
let it die as it was born, and, I pray you, be
'Tis not an hour since I left him there.
Abroad? why then, women are more valiant
Alarum: excursions. Enter NORFOLK and forces fighting; to him CATESBY
To horse, to horse! urge doubts to them that fear.
Or any kind of light,
This night he meaneth with a corded ladder
My liege, his railing is intolerable:
I did not, gentle husband, lock thee forth.
Is still at Tarsus, where each man
Let life be short; else shame will be too long.
We bend to that the working of the heart;
It is offended.
And have no other reason for this wrong
Who's there, ha?
And, in this resolution, I defy thee;
is the base, though bitter, disposition of Beatrice
A man of fire-new words, fashion's own knight.
That shall remain a poison where it is,
You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the
A Marshalsea shall hold ye play these two months.
March. Enter EDWARD, GEORGE, RICHARD, WARWICK, NORFOLK, MONTAGUE, and Soldiers
Is not more smooth and rubious; thy small pipe
You live that shall cry woe for this after.
And go with you.
And the very ports they blow,
Thy grandfather, Roger Mortimer, Earl of March:
We will solicit heaven and move the gods
O, sir, when he shall hear of your approach,
hope, an old man, shall frutify unto you--
My lord, we have
pageant there is presented no monster.
Not a whit.
I must be one of these same dumb wise men,
There's not a one of them but in his house
For there's the house: that chain will I bestow--
An honest poor servant of yours.
Which done, God take King Edward to his mercy,
and so locks her in embracing, as if she would pin
I'll not remember you of my own lord,
Up, cousin, up; your heart is up, I know,
Muster'd my soldiers, gather'd flocks of friends,
No matter who's displeased when you are gone:
No, Harry, Harry, 'tis no land of thine;
thieves of the day's beauty: let us be Diana's
Early to-morrow will we rise, and hence.
Crouch for employment. But pardon, and gentles all,
ACT IV
Walk, and be cheerful once again; reserve
Restored me to my honours, and, out of ruins,
Out, dunghill! darest thou brave a nobleman?
I do applaud thy spirit, Valentine,
Trumpet sounds. Enter General and others, aloft
And be it death proclaimed through our host
Exit
To hover on the dreadful shore of Styx?
my daughter tell you how.
Prefer them hither; for to cunning men
Thou must be made immortal. Where's Barnardine?
Like to the earth swallow her own increase.
say on: he's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he
I return; nay, I bear it on my shoulders, as a
Let me play the lion too: I will roar, that I will
And follow you no further: let me go:
The sum of money which I promised
Yon sometimes famous princes, like thyself,
Her valiant courage and undaunted spirit,
Who made thee, then, a bloody minister,
Sings
I do.
In making question of my uttermost
From most true wretchedness: so thou, Posthumus,
When comes Troilus? I'll show you Troilus anon: if
As young as I am, I have observed these three
'Twill not be lost.
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
I have heard it, Pompey;
I never saw the like.
That so approve the Moor! O, let the heavens
As your fair self, doth tune us otherwise:
great man and now applies it to a fool. Vent my
And do expect him here some two hours hence.
The breath of garlic-eaters!
Than I to speak my griefs unspeakable:
And then to horse immediately.
Exit ALEXAS
Yes, indeed, does he.
Is yond despised and ruinous man my lord?
Why, so: you have made good work!
unhanged in England; and one of them is fat and
DON
Not possible; for who shall bear your part,
if you should die before him, where's her dower?
Or foison follow: the higher Nilus swells,
Accursed if the fault be proved in them,--
The Mouse-trap. Marry, how? Tropically. This play
and, as it were, spoke the prologue of our comedy;
Steal forth thy father's house to-morrow night;
Flourish. Exeunt
Ah, villain, thou wilt betray me, and get a thousand
Flourish. Exeunt all but KING OF FRANCE, GONERIL, REGAN, and CORDELIA
SCENE VIII. Another part of the field.
must your daughter and her gentlewomen carry. The
Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs, so far
Where is mine host?
Do any thing but this thou doest. Empty
Which we of taste and feeling are, for those parts that
Bootless are plaints, and cureless are my wounds;
Was it so late, friend, ere you went to bed,
My Wolsey, see it furnish'd. O, my lord,
No, not a whit.
Go fetch him hither; let me look upon him.
I never saw a fellow worse bested,
I have in quick determination
Withal, as large a charter as the wind,
Sir Topas, Sir Topas, good Sir Topas, go to my lady.
With as big heart as thou. Do as thou list
And harmful pity must be laid aside.
It was, as I have seen it in his life,
So speaking as I think, I die, I die.
I'll make all speed.
unto thee: knock, I say.
We English warriors wot not what it means.
'Tis pitiful; but yet Iago knows
I'll graff it with you, and then I shall graff it
Exeunt
From good descending?
That's a lascivious apprehension.
Can nothing speak? Master, shall I strike?
a vice in her ears, which horse-hairs and
It comes from Padua, from Bellario:
Who lent it you?
Good sir, we must,
What is that Barnardine who is to be executed in the
Giving the crown
I did not see him since.
Exit
merrily, and go away sadly: the reason of this?
Be stamp'd upon it.
I trouble you.
I am much too venturous
A due sincerity govern'd his deeds,
Their very noses had been counsellors
Turn from their office to black funeral;
Not wind? it shall, it must; you see it doth.
Her wagon-spokes made of long spiders' legs,
As for thee, boy, go get thee from my sight;
Hear you, sir;
Voice and favour!
Sir Topas!
To teach thee safety! thou art perjured too,
How if your husband start some other where?
Well, sir; what did this gentleman to her?
To what I shall unfold.
by which means I saw whose purse was best in
the adoption of abominable terms, and by him that
fasting-days, and moreo'er puddings and flap-jacks,
heard the shepherd say, he found the child.
And you shall see 'tis purchased by the weight;
If this same were a churchyard where we stand,
That man that hath a tongue, I say, is no man,
Call hither to the stake my two brave bears,
Good morrow to thee; welcome:
And is become the bellows and the fan
Calls my lord?
for me here to-day? much upon this time have
Why should you fear? is not your city strong?
As if she had suborned some to swear
At my lodging.
ANTIPHOLUS
Let me for this my life-time reign as king.
This squash, this gentleman. Mine honest friend,
That dies in tempest of thy angry frown.
And if I die to-morrow, this is hers,
I'll raise the preparation of a war
Kneel'd at my feet, and bade me be advised
Is the third man that e'er I saw, the first
Well, no more of it, Master Froth: farewell.
Which is the villain? let me see his eyes,
Which, though I will not practise to deceive,
Enshrines thee in his heart and there erects
If e'er the Jew her father come to heaven,
And you of yours, my lord! I say no more,
O my dear brother!
My poor body, madam, requires it: I am driven on
Let the first budger die the other's slave,
Thy life-blood out: if Aaron now be wise,
shall have two noble partners with you; the old
Though churlish thoughts themselves should be your judge,
Leave procreants alone and shut the door;
And these dread curses, like the sun 'gainst glass,
Though Paris came in hope to speed alone.
And turn'd crown'd kings to merchants.
Safely in harbour
habit of some sir of note, and so forth. I have
They will by violence tear him from your palace
What is the news from this good deputy?
To sing a song that old was sung,
Alencon, and an enemy to our person; if thou
Pours the poison into the sleeper's ears
The loyal'st husband that did e'er plight troth:
know it by thy trembling: now Prosper works upon thee.
Three Judases, each one thrice worse than Judas!
And sing our bondage freely.
But such a one whose wrongs do suit with mine.
and where it would not, I have used my credit.
How now, gentleman! how is't with you?
And to myself become an enemy.
Who's there?
That is the voice,
Music
What say you to it? will you again unknit
Be valued against your wife's commandment.
Then at my lodging, an it like you:
To the Daughter of ANTIOCHUS
foul hill, my master riding behind my mistress,--
So says the prince and my new-trothed lord.
A very reverent body; ay, such a one as a man may
Lo, there thou stand'st, a breathing valiant man,
He did inform the truth: but for our gentlemen,
What, what? his choler?
Enter BIONDELLO
Yet should both ear and heart obey my tongue.
Or add a royal number to the dead,
Well met, Mistress Page. Whither go you?
Of that same noble prelate, well beloved,
How now, wool-sack! what mutter you?
Who all this while hath revell'd in the night
Enter CORIOLANUS in mean apparel, disguised and muffled
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
How now! is he dead already? or is it fear
At unawares may beat down Edward's guard
another to Page's wife, who even now gave me good
Marry, after they closed in earnest, they parted very
And say'st thou yet that exile is not death?
Counter-gate, which is as hateful to me as the reek
By false accuse doth level at my life:
That calls me traitor, I return the lie.
So, let her rest: and, madam, list to me;
More are men's ends mark'd than their lives before:
and lay it to your heart: it is the only thing for a qualm.
But, worthy lords, have you with heed perused
The heavens themselves, the planets and this centre
As manhood shall compound: push home.
Give so much light that I may read by them.
An argument that he is pluck'd, when hither
Great in our hope, lay our best love and credence
ARIEL sings and helps to attire him
But must my sons be slaughter'd in the streets,
You, my good friends,'--this says the belly, mark me,--
Which obloquy set bars before my tongue,
Enter EROS
Therefore, for fear of the worst, I pray thee, set a
Heaven and our Lady gracious hath it pleased
Or else were this a savage spectacle:
He tells us Arthur is deceased to-night.
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV, GLOUCESTER, CLARENCE,  and soldiers; with QUEEN MARGARET, OXFORD, and SOMERSET, prisoners
Now you have heard the truth, what say you, Romans?
Pour down thy weather: how goes all in France?
Of the beast Caliban and his confederates
Have written strange defeatures in my face:
That we for thee may glorify the Lord.
They bid us to the English dancing-schools,
Welcome, dread Fury, to my woful house:
Which join'd with him and made their march for Bourdeaux.
And leave me here in wretchedness behind ye?
Here comes my messenger.
Thou kill'st thy mistress: but well and free,
Hang thee, young baggage! disobedient wretch!
My lord, my lord,
Shall bring Emilia forth.
If I get down, and do not break my limbs,
Proclaim them traitors that are up with Cade;
I think there are, sir; I heard them talked of.
Yet that, by you deposed, you quake like rebels?
Have overthrown him.
Doth grace for grace and love for love allow;
Seyton, send out. Doctor, the thanes fly from me.
Tears show their love, but want their remedies.
Awake thee!
Though heaven cannot: O Romeo, Romeo!
Why are thine eyes fixed to the sullen earth,
That are vow-fellows with this virtuous duke?
Or have you read or heard? or could you think?
Stand back, you lords, and give us leave awhile.
Are come to play a pleasant comedy;
Therefore no no, for I resign to thee.
Spotted with strawberries in your wife's hand?
And rather father thee than master thee.
Though their injunction be to bar my doors,
Enter a Scrivener, with a paper in his hand
O, could our mourning ease thy misery!
Re-enter ARIEL, invisible, playing and singing; FERDINAND following
Whiles the mad mothers with their howls confused
To be so taken at thy peril, Jew.
Well, that rascal hath good mettle in him; he will not run.
But do not so. I have five hundred crowns,
Determine for her; for Caesar cannot live
Well, well: away!
Gives a letter
He swore, had had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
her reputation, her marriage-vow, and a thousand
And cannot make away.
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed;
Behold the wounds, the most unnatural wounds,
We came again to bind them. Then they fled
All gather to see them
Let no such man be trusted. Mark the music.
Whose procreation, residence, and birth,
The dint of pity: these are gracious drops.
Did steer humanity: but you, gods, will give us
And see him seated in the regal throne.
And all his lands and goods be confiscate.
'Tis more than need.
Farewell, hostess.
Exit Servant
Where, if it please you, you may intercept him.
With that she's big with; for 'tis Polixenes
Most mighty duke, behold a man much wrong'd.
From bogs, fens, flats, on Prosper fall and make him
that he was, and that the king was an usurper.
Exeunt
And when I have stol'n upon these sons-in-law,
Call him to present trial: if he may
Are counsellors to fear. What soldiers, whey-face?
But was a petty servant to the state,
On sweetest flowers, yet they poison breed.
Shall I destroy him? whether there, or there, or there?
The flesh-fly blow my mouth. Hear my soul speak:
The ne'er-lust-wearied Antony.
I have but with a cursorary eye
Goes the king hence to-day?
list of too cold an adieu: be more expressive to
Rich scarf to my proud earth; why hath thy queen
Peace, you mumbling fool!
with me: I'll tell you all, Master Brook. Since I
Or live in peace abandon'd and despised!
not; but, I am sure, none, unless the fiddler Apollo
And ask him why, that hour of fairy revel,
The eleventh of this month at Shrewsbury
Ay, so I think.
If he be chaste, the flame will back descend
Let's see how it will give off.
of them; two I am sure I have paid, two rogues
And so in ours: some neighbouring nation,
Our city's institutions, and the terms
And mock the deep-mouth'd thunder: for at hand,
Are you contented to resign the crown?
you; albeit, I confess, your coming before me is
And set upon our boasting enemy.
Go, drag the villain hither by the hair;
You break no privilege nor charter there.
Standing on slippers, which his nimble haste
And he himself not present? O, forfend it, God,
And, as the president of my kingdom, will
I met the youthful lord at Laurence' cell;
What 'twere to kill a father; so should Fleance.
And what love can do that dares love attempt;
Methinks I see thee, now thou art below,
Would cast the gorge at, this embalms and spices
Of the Lord Bonville on your new wife's son,
is sometime afeared she will do a desperate outrage
Or she that bore you was no queen, and you
she is here, a man may live as quiet in hell as in a
Bottom! O most courageous day! O most happy hour!
Exeunt
Each drop of us.
The fall of Antony!
And very welcome. Look, signior, here's your sister.
I can no longer brook thy vanities.
I think the boy hath grace in him; he blushes.
thousand, and five hundred too.
Could ever yet cut breath? Let no man mock me,
And so, farewell.
And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell
This paper is the history of my knowledge
That makes his opening with this bigger key:
If I do so, it will be of more price,
Murder'd her kinsman. O, tell me, friar, tell me,
You are a young huntsman, Marcus; let it alone;
cuckold Ford.
And I, the hapless male to one sweet bird,
You do me wrong to take me out o' the grave:
Your mother.
Re-enter FORD, PAGE, DOCTOR CAIUS, and SIR HUGH EVANS
Buys herself bread and clothes: it is a creature
a countenance! is't not a brave man?
And therefore am I bold and resolute.
And deny himself for Jove,
That might relieve you!
Pardon, dear madam: 'tis a passing shame
Sweet sister, let me live:
How many is one thrice told?
The gentleman is learn'd, and a most rare speaker;
I will go there and do't, i' the court, before
Of horsemen, that were levied for this siege!
And I, with grief and sorrow, to the court.
Hath no man's dagger here a point for me?
A thousand more mischances than this one
there's money for thee.
And did you leave him in this contemplation?
Within two hours.
if matters should be looked into, for their own
match. O, if men were to be saved by merit, what
Exit
By your most gracious pardon,
Exeunt
For certain she is dead, and by strange manner.
Long die thy happy days before thy death;
Since I have here my father's gift in's will.
How much unlike my hopes and my deservings!
your fair eyes and gentle wishes go with me to my
Your mistress shall be happy.
We go wrong, we go wrong.
You say true; 'tis so, indeed: if such tricks as
If York, with all his far-fet policy,
He says, to veil full purpose.
He does it under name of perfect love;
That should applaud again.--Pull't off, I say.--
more stubborn and boisterous expedition.
Had I so lavish of my presence been,
Here, so please you.
with the duke; what his valour, honesty, and
The wildest hath not such a heart as you.
And every drop cries vengeance for his death,
This is a happier and more comely time
There is my gage, the manual seal of death,
Exit
The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
uncle Capulet, his wife and daughters; my fair niece
Anointed let me be with deadly venom,
I know that knave; hang him! one Parolles: a
As thus, 'Come, little ones,' and then again,
Of space had pointed him sharp as my needle,
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
Meet in one line; and vast confusion waits,
Re-enter FALSTAFF
With pennons painted in the blood of Harfleur:
Not sickness should detain me.
hate the Moor: my cause is hearted; thine hath no
Come on, lay it by: and let's first see moe
Than I dare blame my weakness: will you see her
Agrees not with the leanness of his purse.
Arthur of Bretagne England's king and yours.
rather to have my hat than my heart, I will practise
SCENE III. A room in FORD'S house.
Was never widow had so dear a loss!
In vaults and prisons, and to thrill and shake
To LUCIO
And send him word by me which way you go.
'Faith, he to-night hath boarded a land carack:
Vengeance! plague! death! confusion!
Poison, I see, hath been his timeless end:
DON
What you bestow, in him I'll counterpoise,
Your worship had like to have given us one, if you
'tis a good dog.
Were in his pride or sharpness; if they were,
Strike at thy life. Grieved I, I had but one?
Thou'ldst thank me but a little for my counsel:
That should by private order else have died,
Thy master is a wise and valiant Roman;
For he was more than over shoes in love.
High wedlock then be honoured:
What didst thou lose, Jack?
Or less,--at first?--perchance he spoke not, but,
was the very day that young Hamlet was born; he that
There's little can be said in 't; 'tis against the
What appetite you have.
There's mischief in this man: canst thou say further?
King and commander of our commonweal,
To leave no rubs nor botches in the work--
No, I will do nothing at thy bidding: make thy
And so unworthily disgrace the man,
I never did her any, to my knowledge.
Thy kinsman and thy friends, I'll have more lives
had rather hear my dog bark at a crow than a man
Exeunt THURIO and Musicians
Didst thou not say he comes?
What's the quarrel?
And thine, Lord Clifford; and you both have vow'd revenge
To speak so indirectly I am loath:
To see thee fight, to see thee foin, to see thee
That glues my lips and will not let me speak.
Your reasons are too shallow and too quick.
On his behalf.
How now, Signior Launce! what news with your
Unless you play the pious innocent,
Till thou applaud the deed. Come, seeling night,
They have done my poor house grace; for which I pay 'em
To steal his sweet and honey'd sentences;
unicorn, pride and wrath would confound thee and
The court of Rome commanding, you, my lord
Here she comes, curst and sad:
When therewithal we shall have cause of state
Mine eyes smell onions; I shall weep anon:
Come, tailor, let us see these ornaments;
purpose to marry, I will think nothing to any
And turn his sleep to wake.
Twenty to one then he is shipp'd already,
Setting thy womanhood aside, thou art a beast to say
And told'st me of a mistress and a dinner;
Since I came to this isle: and in the morn
Brother, the king hath made your nephew mad.
Nor wish no less; and so, I take my leave.
Go thrust him out at gates, and let him smell
Good Master Mustardseed, I know your patience well:
I'll hence to London on a serious matter:
And make us even with you. My thanes and kinsmen,
So say I too, sir.
Bearing the king in my behalf along;
What say'st thou, boy? look in the lady's face.
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and three or four with tapers
I will not.
Exeunt
Exeunt
I think he be transform'd into a beast;
his shrift.
Fair Leda's daughter had a thousand wooers;
It is to jet upon a prince's right?
bear, yet he is oft led by the nose with gold: show
Make choice of which your highness will see first.
There are yet missing of your company
manner of a man to speak to a woman: for the form,--
Enter HELENA, Widow, and DIANA, with two Attendants
Unwisely, not ignobly, have I given.
Besides, her intercession chafed him so,
So far be distant; and, good night, sweet friend:
We'll none of him; but let him, like an engine
Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace,
And charges him my lord, with such a time
DON
But here must end the story of my life;
But your kind hostess. Come, I'll question you
Enter DERCETAS and Guard
Or study where to meet some mistress fine,
I hope so.
without any malice, but to speak of him as my
Return those duties back as are right fit,
What's in't is precious; if you are sick at sea,
The selfsame name, but one of better nature.
Ah, gracious lord, these days are dangerous:
To keep him safely till his day of trial.
We will be short with you. 'Tis his highness' pleasure,
That gives not half so great a blow to hear
Like pleasant travellers, to break a jest
In iron walls they deem'd me not secure;
Uneath may she endure the flinty streets,
Not for the worth that hangs upon our quarrel.
His currish riddles sort not with this place.
Thy friends are fled to wait upon thy foes,
And use it for my haste. Come, come, away!
Is that the rebels have consumed with fire
You shall not choose but drink before you go:
You do not know him, my lord, as we do: certain it
'Convey,' the wise it call. 'Steal!' foh! a fico
They are his shards, and he their beetle.
What stir is this? what tumult's in the heavens?
To bear her burthen, whether I will or no,
Since last I went to France to fetch his queen:
Warwick, what are thy news? and yours, fair queen?
At once and fully satisfied,--whether ever I
How many days will finish up the year;
Where should be graven, if that right were right,
Is this: she hath bought the name of whore
boy's play here, I can tell you.
To meet you at the Tower and welcome you.
Jack shall have Jill;
not make her husband a cuckold to make him a
'Tis burnt; and so is all the meat.
And take with you free power to ratify,
A third is like the former. Filthy hags!
What though I kill'd her husband and her father?
Wherefore eyest him so?
A father, and a gracious aged man,
Is dangerous treason: he is come to open
Her faction will be full as strong as ours.
Good lord chamberlain,
pretty barne! A boy or a child, I wonder? A
rejoice in yours.
So I may answer thee with one as old, that was a
Faith, sir, superficially.
Prithee, let him alone; we shall have more anon.
With gazing fed; and fancy dies
And pat he comes like the catastrophe of the old
Will pack when it begins to rain,
O, he is wounded; I thank the gods for't.
Which I would fain shut out. If it should prove
Yea, with a splitting power, and made to tremble
serpents, have
SCENE II. CAESAR's house.
How much thou wrong'st me, heaven be my judge.
There's no trust,
Nor shalt not, till necessity be served.
What is the cause, Laertes,
Nor I.
forty pound apiece, and a seal-ring of my
And did my brother Bedford toil his wits,
An adder did it; for with doubler tongue
Thersites!
An a' speak any thing against me, I'll take him
Ah, stand by.
By turning o'er authorities, I have,
With this same play, against your nuptial.
The word, 'Quod me alit, me extinguit.'
Rideth a puissant navy; to the shore
And lay aside my high blood's royalty,
He must, and will
And then in post he came from Mantua
I will knog your urinals about your knave's cockscomb
Sirrah, a word with you: attend those men
Than death can yield me here by my abode.
In youth, when I did love, did love,
What says he of our marriage? what of that?
With his good will and thy good company,
Good morrow, and well met. How have ye done
It well may serve
No; 'twas the vane on the house.
But you shall bear the burden soon at night.
That thou wert cause of noble Gloucester's death.
So please you, we will stand and watch your pleasure.
Well, get thee gone; farewell.
Stay, countrymen.
You were inspired to do those duties which
Richard shall live to make the Earl of Warwick
Why no, you ruinous butt, you whoreson
Hast not the soft way which, thou dost confess,
And entertain'd me with mine own device;
[Sings]
Of pity, not revenge!
further than I meant, to pluck all fears out of you.
Of that report which I so oft have heard.
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
For what is he they follow?  truly, gentlemen,
To this we swore our aid. But in short space
Her length of sickness, with what else more serious
And this is he was his adopted heir.
Are hired to bear their staves: either thou, Macbeth,
No, I'll nothing: for if I should be bribed too,
You are welcome, gentlemen! come, musicians, play.
conscience, sir, I do not care for you: if that be
If thou didst put this sour-cold habit on
Shall we be sunder'd? shall we part, sweet girl?
loss at sea or no?
That I might rail at him, to ease my mind!
Thou diest within this hour.
Makes Welsh as sweet as ditties highly penn'd,
and thaw: it was a miracle to scape suffocation.
Exit BRAKENBURY
Is it possible?
Thou know'st my lodging: get me ink and paper,
Speak less than thou knowest,
Shall I play my freedom at traytrip, and become thy
What should this mean?
If you might please to stretch it.
Then well one more may fair Bianca have:
they'll stick where they are thrown.
From giving aid which late I promised.
Sweet Monsieur Parolles!
And though he came our enemy, remember
creditor but it; of what's past, is, and to come,
Prepare thy brow to frown: know'st
All these are servants to deceitful men.
Brief, I pray you; for you see it is a busy time with me.
By me they nothing gain an if I stay;
not been common in my love. I will, sir, flatter my
Enter Chamberlain
Some little time: so by your companies
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
Judge, O you gods, how dearly Caesar loved him!
Base, fearful and despairing Henry!
Among my maids: full little, God knows, looking
article of thy gentry.
Loath to depose the child, Your brother's son;
Where he for grace is kneel'd to.
If you suspect my husbandry or falsehood,
That my most jealous and too doubtful soul
And ere that we will suffer such a prince,
take me by the hand, and say 'Harry of England I am
Stand forth, and with bold spirit relate what you,
Sir, most heedfully.
Madam, my lord will go away to-night;
In me at once: but to the brightest beams
This?
But were I not the better part made mercy,
Will thereto be obedient, I have reason;
But kill him rather. I'll after that same villain,
for when lenity and cruelty play for a kingdom, the
Reveal yourself to him.
rather--saving reverence of the word--for 'tis said
Even now we housed him in the abbey here;
Would have a queen his beggar, you must tell him,
Stay till I have read the letter.
Was a deep envious one.
love to the Moor,-- put money in thy purse,--nor he
You might do much.
Have I, Malvolio? no.
And signify this loving interview
What trumpet's that?
Defend the justice of my cause with arms,
One of these days; and then you'ld wanton with us,
Well placed: there stands your friend for the
Who then, affrighted with their bloody looks,
Exeunt Sheriff and Carrier
Alas, good lady!
Whereby they live: and though that all at once,
If that she learn not of her eye to look:
Heavens keep him from these beasts!
Why, let the war receive 't in valiant gore
Most admirable: I have seen those wars.
O general,
intrusion; for they say, if money go before, all
Would, Polydote, thou hadst not done't! though valour
In lists, on Thomas Mowbray, Duke of Norfolk,
Than all thy woes can stir; therefore betake thee
carry't, he will carry't; 'tis in his buttons; he
So follow, to be most unlike our courtiers,
'ARTEMIDORUS.'
Sir, this I hear; the king is come to his daughter,
And all those twenty could but kill one life.
of her liking. I thank my stars I am happy. I will
Yet, ere you shall depart, this we desire,
simple syllogism will serve, so; if it will not,
point-devise companions; such rackers of
Well, as time shall try: 'In time the savage bull
Companion, hence!
What, hast thou dined? The tailor stays thy leisure,
May be a precedent and witness good
It is a purposed thing, and grows by plot,
But then up farther, and as for as Rome;
That he shuts up himself, imagine me,
I am content: Richard Plantagenet,
I hear there is an overture of peace.
Mistress, we have.
Who had been hither sent on the debating
Though 'twere to buy a world of happy days,
We have done our course; there's money for your pains:
How now! what mean'st thou, that thou help'st me not?
Now in the stirring passage of the day,
very epicure.
And when a soldier was the theme, my name
Clock strikes
To this unworthy husband of his wife;
Give place: by heaven, thou shalt rule no more
Exeunt
Enter DIOMEDES, TROILUS following
No, my chuck. Eros, come; mine armour, Eros!
God will revenge it; whom I will importune
Castiliano vulgo! for here comes Sir Andrew Agueface.
Long in our court have made their amorous sojourn,
Therefore, brave conquerors,--for so you are,
dwell? Am I a married man or a bachelor? Then, to
For her perfections: but my revenge will come.
They are so.
furthest inch of Asia, bring you the length of
Make us strange stuff.
I have been i' the market-place; and, sir,'tis fit
Musicians waiting. Enter Servingmen with napkins
Sir Christopher, tell Richmond this from me:
Away, Sir Corporal Nym!
The power of man, for none of woman born
but in the plainer and simpler kind of people, the
'By the Lord, madam,'--
dismiss the controversy bleeding the more entangled
Tybalt, liest thou there in thy bloody sheet?
Cry 'God for Harry, England, and Saint George!'
With a nuptial knot, if thou vouchsafe to grant
Good morrow, Lieutenant Bardolph.
I must go look my twigs: he shall be caught.
Prithee, be my present partner in this business, and
The hate I bear thee made me leave thee so?
RICHARD
You fools! I and my fellows
Hath rotted ere his youth attain'd a beard;
But in the night or in the time of war.
Yet see no shelter to avoid the storm;
two helps, will so practise on Benedick that, in
Shall win the wager which we will propose.
His time is spent, our pilgrimage must be.
I Costard, running out, that was safely within,
The powers of us may serve so great a day
God ha' mercy on his soul!
Of thy first fight, I soon encountered,
Now do your duty throughly, I advise you:
Detains him from Cordelia.
To walk this way: I never do him wrong,
He that outlives this day, and comes safe home,
For in an act of this importance 'twere
Then mightst thou speak, then mightst thou tear thy hair,
The breath of heaven has blown his spirit out
As seek to soften that--than which what's harder?--
By my troth, Sir Toby, you must come in earlier o'
Be not, as is our fangled world, a garment
Exit Servant
Here, purposing the Bastard to destroy,
With who?
Or whether that the body public be
Now in his ashes honour: peace be with him!
Thunder and lightning. Enter three Witches
For certain sums of gold, which you denied me:
Here lies thy heart, thy sinews, and thy bone.
Comfort, good comfort! We must to the king and show
Most serpent-like, upon the very heart:
Sennet. Exeunt
at home for you.
chosen for the prince's watch.
Second trumpet
Do thy worst:
And the gods make her prosperous!
Thou villain Capulet,--Hold me not, let me go.
Nay, stay, Sir John, awhi le, and we'll debate
Stand back, thou manifest conspirator,
Do no more offices of life to't than
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
owest the worm no silk, the beast no hide, the sheep
Dost thou detest her therefore?
I am sure thou dost.
Enter WARWICK, the Mayor of Coventry, two Messengers, and others upon the walls
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than the
Did come to languish, and indeed, my lord,
How now, Abhorson? what's the news with you?
But make amends now: get you gone,
Supported his estate; nay, Timon's money
One Gilbert Peck, his chancellor--
Especially against his very friend.
lordship sees the bottom of his success in't, and to
This disease is beyond my practise: yet I have known
Stab them, or tear them on thy chariot-wheels;
For what I have I need not to repeat;
Sometime with lunatic bans, sometime with prayers,
Ay, by my life;
Her hair, what colour?
Their own particular thrifts, they would do that
And with a sudden vigour doth posset
The cares I give I have, though given away;
SCENE V. Pentapolis. A room in the palace.
And he grows angry. Now, whether he kill Cassio,
And thus hath so bestirr'd thee in thy sleep,
Poor naked wretches, whereso'er you are,
Was never mother had so dear a loss!
With words more sweet, and yet more dangerous,
And pass them current too. God's me, my horse!
none but good house-holders, yeoman's sons; inquire
my way: but I would it were morning; for I would
To sacred Delphos, to Apollo's temple,
Stealing so poorly.
With shadowy forests and with champains rich'd,
A miracle! a miracle!
Here, Winchester, I offer thee my hand.
the bastard is fled from Messina: you have among
Where should they be set else? he were a brave
Till they have snared the shepherd of the flock,
To live an unstain'd wife to my sweet love.
I am in my condition
I now perceive, it was not altogether your
As far as toucheth my particular,
Have you not set Lysander, as in scorn,
You love my son; invention is ashamed,
In deputation left behind him here,
Quick is mine ear to hear of good towards him.
Enter two or three Servants with a chest
So farewell to the little good you bear me.
Hipparchus, my enfranched bondman, whom
Sure, one of you does not serve heaven well, that
Clear them o' the city. For myself, I'll put
The king is angry: see, he bites the lip.
And, for your friend's sake, will be glad of you;
hither. If thou be'st valiant,-- as, they say, base
Of pale distemperatures and foes to life?
So he is. My lord that's gone made himself much
You may have very fit occasion for't: he is now in
To you, preferring you before her father,
And fright our native peace with self-born arms.
Between his purpose and his conscience,
And they have been grand-jury-men since before Noah
Consider it not so deeply.
Exit
Bolts and shackles!
Or what is now received: I witness to
That you insult, exult, and all at once,
For which the heavens, taking angry note,
SCENE IV. Orleans.
Pray you, go, Master Page.
Distinctly speak of her; though I may fear
I thank ye heartily; so shall this lady,
that you know: if you will follow me, I will show
There is no sure foundation set on blood,
Ay: but, peace! let's hear 'em.
This young gentlewoman had a father,--O, that
look you, this leek: because, look you, you do not
And for this once my will shall stand for law.
But if I were as wise as honest, then
SONG.
Doth this news hold of good King Edward's death?
[Aside]  Then we are like to have biting statutes,
he'll be made an example.
I assure you, there is very excellent services
The like is on her arm.
Then you are a better than the king.
And he will, after his sour fashion, tell you
And I with him, and many moe with me,
With some fine colour that may please the eye
Not whom we will, but whom his grace affects,
Luxuriously pick'd out: for, I am sure,
Not only, sir, this your all-licensed fool,
A light condition in a beauty dark.
The princely Warwick, and the Nevils all,
Sheathe your dagger:
And break your own neck down.
A terrible childbed hast thou had, my dear;
He might have tried Lord Lucius or Lucullus;
Anon, anon, sir.
Why do fond men expose themselves to battle,
You find not the apostraphas, and so miss the
The sweet and bitter fool
I owe him little duty, and less love;
Am bold to show myself a forward guest
How now, mine host!
Meet to be sent on errands: is it fit,
Pretty and witty; wild, and yet, too, gentle:
When ye first put this dangerous stone a-rolling,
What Conrade!
I'll be so bold to take what they have left.
Follow me not;
He is not with himself; let us withdraw.
More tedious than the dial eight score times?
flaming a praise for a good complexion. I had as
Her new-built virtue and obedience.
SCENE II. Padua. Before HORTENSIO'S house.
So, now I have mine own again, be gone,
You rogue! you rascal!
What man I am, and how, and why, and where
Therein the patient
him, mistaking his purpose, it would make a great
And whereso'er this foot of mine doth tread,
Exeunt Launcelot and Old Gobbo
Why grow the branches now the root is wither'd?
I hope, upon familiarity will grow more contempt:
Enter ISABELLA and MARIANA
So fairly bound? O that deceit should dwell
My life stands in the level of your dreams,
Into the eye and prospect of his soul,
Which, being suffer'd, rivers cannot quench.
Nor shall not, while I have a stump.
Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword;
He might have kept that glory to this day;
Why urgest thou so oft young Arthur's death?
And Smith the weaver,--
Upon the heels of my presentment, sir.
My ear should catch your voice, my eye your eye,
Might yet enkindle you unto the crown,
Of what we think against thee.
You have tripp'd since.
What part is that, my lord?
Besides, thy staying will abridge thy life.
Perchance the cardinal cannot make your peace;
By deed-achieving honour newly named,--
Then wish me better; I will give you leave.
To have thee with thy lips to stop my mouth;
SCENE I. King Lear's palace.
should purchase the day before for a little part,
of voice? Is there no respect of place, persons, nor
Hoy-day, what a sweep of vanity comes this way!
As Shafalus to Procrus, I to you.
You shall, Mark Antony.
Come, hold your peace.
Of human dealings. If I do prove her haggard,
From thee, my boy, and had the maidenhood
'Let not your sorrow die, though I am dead.'
Now kiss, embrace, contend, do what you will.
No, I'll not go: you hear what he hath said
Our free hearts each to other.
Now are they come.
Or overthrow incurable ensues.
And shall perchance do good: but speak you on;
But well, when I discourse of love and peace?
The devil fiddle 'em! I am glad they are going,
What follows, then, my lord?
There is my hand.
Send for the county; go tell him of this:
Yea, noise? then I'll be brief. O happy dagger!
I say, no;
Great men,
O good sir, my master charged me to deliver a ring
Or I will fill the house with armed men,
he fit for't, indeed.
That I'll straight do; and, knowing myself again,
Even women have cast off, melt thee, but be
Take heed, ere summer comes or cuckoo-birds do sing.
nose; or against any man's metaphor. Prithee, get
Shall be this cold corpse on the earth's cold face;
Enter LORD ROSS and LORD WILLOUGHBY
marriage, and God give thee joy!
to-morrow wed her; but it would better fit your honour
in my shirt.
They say, by him the good Duke Humphrey died;
To what end did I bid thee hie thee home?
And thus he would: Open your city gates;
In Fulvia's death, how mine received shall be.
To amplify too much, would make much more,
Of the king's look's, hath a heart that is not
Or else his head's assurance is but frail.
I did, my lord: yet let me be their bail;
The gods are deaf to hot and peevish vows:
quarrels you may say he is wise; for either he
But jealous for they are jealous: 'tis a monster
yours: for my part, I do not lie in't, and yet it is mine.
Make it no wonder; if you knew my business,
Here he is, here he is. How is't with you, sir?
I go: and towards three or four o'clock
You rather mine, being yours: and so, great powers,
Come you, sir: if justice cannot tame you, she
Nuncle Lear, nuncle Lear, tarry and take the fool
Remember in my prayers.
Nay, by my faith, I think you are more beholding to
be a kind woman in Windsor, she is one. You must
though I had never so good means, as desire, to make
Exit
if I were as tedious as a king, I could find it in
forsake your liberty.
In the due reverence of a sacred vow
To curb the will of the nobility:
We first put out to sea.
Must know and own; this thing of darkness!
'Tis true, I gave a noble to the priest
Showing a paper
But only painted, like his varnish'd friends?
SCENE III. A road near the Shepherd's cottage.
thefts were too open; his filching was like an
Are you so hot? marry, come up, I trow;
As I do long and wish to be a subject.
I will be satisfied; let me see the writing.
To use my lawful sword!
Or came it by request and such fair question
If love be blind, love cannot hit the mark.
We must not think the Turk is so unskilful
As much as I can do, I will effect:
Welcome, pure wit! thou partest a fair fray.
The worst that may befall me in this case,
Remnants of packthread and old cakes of roses,
The piece of tender air, thy virtuous daughter,
O, you have lived in desolation here,
Andronicus, I do not flatter thee,
Exit Gentlewoman
My lord, I have remembrances of yours,
Not so, I do beseech your majesty.
This is strange. Who hath got the right Anne?
And loves to grant, reprieve him from the wrath
And in my conduct shall your ladies come;
Now sits the wind fair, and we will aboard.
Remember, boys, I pour'd forth tears in vain,
To women of all fashion; lastly, hurried
By thinking on fantastic summer's heat?
Let it go round.
And, look, how many Grecian tents do stand
Be Mercury, set feathers to thy heels,
assembly: whither should they come?
To-morrow for the march are we addrest.
base for a soldier to love, so am I in love with a
He shall, sure on't.
Now, Clifford, I have singled thee alone:
And dreadful objects so familiar
Hath he born himself penitently in prison? how
Anon, Francis? No, Francis; but to-morrow, Francis;
I'll to the Centaur, to go seek this slave:
By the stern brow and waspish action
to Madam Silvia, which, out of my neglect, was never done.
And well become the agent; 't may, I grant;
The power that I have on you is, to spare you;
Of Charles the Great. Also King Lewis the Tenth,
These lies are like their father that begets them;
Were stol'n, and to this hour no guess in knowledge
To alter me: I stay here on my bond.
Chiron, we hunt not, we, with horse nor hound,
Bear with me; I am hungry for revenge,
Promise me friendship, but perform none: if thou
Burns under feigned ashes of forged love
You shall digest the venom of your spleen,
And even now my burthen'd heart would break,
Be-mock the modest moon.
And from this fellow? if we live thus tamely,
If this be nothing.
Therefore be out of hope, of question, of doubt;
What's thy name?
SCENE V. The French camp.
Enter ROMEO
He had rather venture all his limbs for honour
words to the Lord Lysimachus.
mark it. You say right, sir: o' Monday morning;
Well, give me the moiety. Are you a party in this business?
And yet not so, for what can we bequeath
Bounteous madam,
Our loving lawful, and our faith not torn.
I, as Aeneas, our great ancestor,
But straight they told me they would bind me here
In craving your opinion of my title,
That am a maid, though most ungentle fortune
As I am now unhappy; which is more
Not a more cowardly rogue in all Bohemia: if you had
Let him that thinks of me so abjectly
Let not my sister read it in your eye;
opinion, and that opinion a mere profit.
And with the half-blown rose. But Fortune, O,
Strike, as thou didst at Caesar; for, I know,
I had most need of blessing, and 'Amen'
Come, sister. Dromio, play the porter well.
To dote thus on such luggage? Let's alone
Without some treachery used to Valentine.
Murder, stem murder, in the direst degree;
Exit Boy
Ay, and the best she shall have; and my favour
Must have their voices; neither will they bate
By heaven, he echoes me,
They say, is shamefully bereft of life.
Our son and daughter shall in Tyrus reign.
We shall be late else; which I would not be,
To England will I steal, and there I'll steal:
If't be your pleasure and most wise consent,
One that made means to come by what he hath,
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven,
Follow me; thou shalt serve me: if I like thee no
pity to cast them away for nothing; though, between
If she be mad,--as I believe no other,--
And was embark'd to cross to Burgundy;
Nay, women are frail too.
Whether it be through force of your report,
Enter two Sailors, one belonging to the Tyrian vessel, the other to the barge; to them HELICANUS
I am cold myself. Where is this straw, my fellow?
What observation madest thou in this case
Ca, ha! he bounds from the earth, as if his
The last was I that felt thy tyranny:
I'll wear a boot, to make it somewhat rounder.
Re-enter Gaoler, with EMILIA
[Aside]  So wise so young, they say, do never
Which then they had to take from 's, to resume
Pray you now, forget and forgive: I am old and foolish.
Diana, to take heed of the allurement of one Count
Aside
Than women's are.
I will kiss thy royal finger, and take leave. I am
My conscience first received a tenderness,
He is an usurer: strike me the counterfeit matron;
That I may dew it with my mournful tears;
Not as a fee: grant me two things, I pray you,
If she sustain him and his hundred knights
And then I know after who comes by the worst.
He is in haste; therefore, I pray you to go.
SCENE I. Cyprus. Before the castle.
He'll call you to so hot an answer of it,
Itself with strength: seal then, and all is done.
Upon this island as a spy, to win it
Good morrow, good Lieutenant: I am sorry
Farewell, captain.
Be heap'd like mine and that thy skill be more
Who cannot want the thought how monstrous
In cases of defence 'tis best to weigh
'Twere pregnant they should square between
Of much good news?
[Within]  By my troth, your town is troubled with
'Tis not the first time I have constrained one to
For now, these hot days, is the mad blood stirring.
us. When we banished him, we respected not them;
They sparkle still the right Promethean fire;
There's for thy pains.
Was to be trusted with them.
Call, good Mercutio.
Either you must
Kinsman to grim and comfortless despair,
And, come, I will go get a leaf of brass,
We may not think the justness of each act
Farewell, Ophelia; and remember well
To who?
That from this castle's tatter'd battlements
And, after conflict such as was supposed
were to make a monster of the multitude: of the
A human shape.
Nip not the gaudy blossoms of your love,
Flourish. Exeunt
When you shall please to play the thieves for wives,
Are empty trunks o'erflourish'd by the devil.
Then sit we down, and let us all consult.
Hang there like a fruit, my soul,
With horror, madly dying, like her life,
And her prosperities so largely taste,
Book of Riddles! why, did you not lend it to Alice
Of any penny tribute paid. Our countrymen
the Lent shall be as long again as it is; and thou
As I will meet thee, if thou stir abroad--
Marry, beshrew my hand,
The occasion shall instruct you: if entreaties
An odorous chaplet of sweet summer buds
That will speak any thing?
And perform an old contracting.
Nothing but that; move still, still so,
And leave your England, as dead midnight still,
He shall espouse Elizabeth her daughter.
I cannot give due action to my words,
shall use me hereafter, drybeat the rest of the
In God's name, lead; your king's name be obey'd:
Stood Dido with a willow in her hand
faults I have committed to your worship and to give
swoon when he showed me your handkerchief?
The access of gentle visitors!
As to throw out our eyes for brave Othello,
Which they have often made against the senate,
And thank the holy conclave for their loves:
Well, my good lord.
By seeing the worst, which late on hopes depended.
I, like a child, will go by thy direction.
dog's-leather of.
Which might have well becomed the best of men,
The armourers, accomplishing the knights,
In this detested, dark, blood-drinking pit.
That, like a testy babe, will scratch the nurse
Alarum. Excursions. Enter WARWICK
Lest thou a feverous life shouldst entertain,
Tranio, I saw her coral lips to move
By gar, den, I have as mush mock-vater as de
Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear'st,
Remains in use with you. Our Italy
And should, if I were worthy to be judge,
That men of your nobility and power
Exit POLONIUS with all the Players but the First
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
For me and my possessions she esteems not.
Fear not my government.
His present and your pains we thank you for:
And better conquest never canst thou make
Such sheets of fire, such bursts of horrid thunder,
Was this the face that faced so many follies,
My heart dropp'd love, my power rain'd honour, more
O, now doth Death line his dead chaps with steel;
And say 'Will't please your lordship cool your hands?'
Or, like the Parthian, I shall flying fight;
Exeunt CORIOLANUS and AUFIDIUS
thorough them.
How now, Prince Troilus! wherefore not afield?
I am a-weary, give me leave awhile:
Exit TAMORA
The man is innocent.
According to the statute of the town,
Must rectify our knowledge.
We will entice the Duke of Burgundy
Here's to thy health.
Exit Servant
Were you in my stead, would you have heard
No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home:
Let him alone, or so many so minded,
A beauty-waning and distressed widow,
Such groans of roaring wind and rain, I never
was I with you there for the goose?
How hast thou injured both thyself and us!
The man that makes his toe
leave him, and suddenly contrive the means of
That now our loss might be ten times so much?
How goes it here?
Exeunt TROILUS and CRESSIDA
Go on before; I'll talk with this good fellow.
Exeunt
How they might hurt their enemies, if they durst;
Whither bound?
To vex thee.
Exeunt ANGELO, MARIANA, FRIAR PETER and Provost
interrupt the monster one word further, and,
Been laden with like frailties which before
The spring, the head, the fountain of your blood
With conscience wide as hell, mowing like grass
Freely will I speak. Antiochus you fear,
Go with me to the vault.
'Twill be heavier soon by the weight of a man.
Our subjects, sir,
bestraught: here's--
Her and her virtues, I cannot forget
What say'st thou, Charles? for I am marching hence.
I shall indue you with: meantime but ask
Even to the general all-ending day.
That bloodily did spawn upon his face;
Nay, that's not next.--Hark! who is't that knocks?
Let me go and try:
half, for easing me of the carriage.
The vaporous night approaches.
angled for mine eyes, caught the water though not
A thirsty evil; and when we drink we die.
As a long-parted mother with her child
Is't possible?
with interchange of gifts, letters, loving
Melancholy.
Most pestilent to the bearing; and, to bear 'em,
Come, boy, and go with me: thy sight is young,
Their needles to lances, and their gentle hearts
Ay, and Hector's a greyhound.
Poland winter: if she lives till doomsday,
Spoke like an officer; ha' to thee, lad!
Should, notwithstanding that your bond of duty,
What trick, what device, what starting-hole, canst
A sennet. Enter, with actors before them, COMINIUS  the consul, MENENIUS, CORIOLANUS, Senators,  SICINIUS and BRUTUS. The Senators take their  places; the Tribunes take their Places by themselves. CORIOLANUS stands
I rest much bounden to you: fare you well.
Thy truth and thy integrity is rooted
Keep off them, for you sink.
Speak softly, wake her not.
You look upon that sleeve; behold it well.
Aside
that kills my heart.
Which he did give himself, I know not how,
walk: I will even take my leave of you, and pace
pour in, pour in; his ambition is dry.
Crowns what you are doing in the present deed,
Raise up the Montagues: some others search:
Only for wantonness. By my christendom,
fire cannot melt out of me: I will die in it at the stake.
I should not for my life but weep with him.
And make him proud to make me proud that jests!
staff understands me.
Together with my practise, made familiar
Were nice and lucky, men did ransom lives
If thou wilt fight, fight by thy father's side;
Accuse him home and home. For my poor self,
By my penny of observation.
The truest manner'd; such a holy witch
Exeunt TROILUS, CRESSIDA, and DIOMEDES
Then how can Margaret be thy paramour?
That time best fits the work we have in hand.
But wilt thou hear me how I did proceed?
Of some strange nature, letting it there stand
No;
with thee.
For our losses, his exchequer is too poor; for the
Heaven restore thee!
and the man in blood, they will out of their
Consider what you first did swear unto,
To bear it tamely; touch me with noble anger,
He rises on the toe: that spirit of his
Did verily bear blood?
the Egyptians in their fog.
chamber-window, bids me a thousand times good
His weary joints would gladly rise, I know;
Hold, patience!
Monsieur the challenger, the princesses call for you.
Which, as the dearest issue of his practise,
And then I ran away to call the watch.
Here SALISBURY lifteth himself up and groans
Among a mineral of metals base,
A shower and thunder with their caps and shouts:
Reverend appearer, no;
And of your choice, these reverend fathers; men
Makes nice of no vile hold to stay him up:
activity in question. What, billing again? Here's
With the rude multitude till I return.
The people cry you mock'd them, and of late,
bonneted, without any further deed to have them at
for thee at the North-gate.
Whether it was his wisdom or his fear.
At the port, lord, I'll give her to thy hand,
Fie, treacherous hue, that will betray with blushing
Hath made us forward. But, my gentle queen,
No; I pray thee speak in sober judgment.
O my follies! then Edgar was abused.
Which on thy royal party granted once,
We write in water. May it please your highness
Exeunt
Ne'er did poor steward wear a truer grief
Cassio hath here been set on in the dark
Hath brought me to thy hearth; not out of hope--
your own inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
Do we not likewise see our learning there?
Exeunt VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
Fathers, from hence trust not your daughters' minds
Fear not that, my lord.
He is not guilty of her coming hither.
DON
'Twas mine, 'tis his, and has been slave to thousands:
have an exposition of sleep come upon me.
Or wolf, or both,--for he is equal ravenous
That it was he in the times past which held you
But will my Rosalind do so?
And what said he?
shall pride carry it?
Let me persuade you to forbear awhile.
My brother might not claim him; nor your father,
If not, my senses, better pleased with madness,
SCENE VI. Another part of the field.
furnish him, nothing doubting your present
A poor physician's daughter my wife! Disdain
My mother was the daughter of a king;
Poor and content is rich and rich enough,
He can at pleasure stint their melody:
There is something in the wind, that we cannot get in.
Enter QUEEN ELIZABETH, RIVERS, and GREY
To all his lands and signories: when he's return'd,
Madam, the young gentleman of the Count Orsino's is
I pray you, will you take him by the arm?
own fool's eyes peep.
This curlish knot of all-abhorred war?
are rather point-device in your accoutrements as
Which I, the factor for the rest, have done
By any desperate change: my more particular,
No touch of bashfulness? What, will you tear
And they shall say, when Richard me begot,
Nor cease to be an arrogant controller,
Come our lovely lady nigh;
From my own windows torn my household coat,
'Faith, they listened to me as they would have
Success and conquest to attend on us.
ill-qualities.
Will you not tell me who told you so?
It was against your highness: whereat grieved,
My heart fly to your service; there resides,
Here cousin:
Two such opposed kings encamp them still
A king of shreds and patches,--
As friends to Antioch, we may feast in Tyre.
O Hero, what a Hero hadst thou been,
He thinks too much: such men are dangerous.
You are rapt, sir, in some work, some dedication
Strong as a tower in hope, I cry amen.
How now, my noble friend! since I came hither,
Not swear it, now I am a gentleman? Let boors and
Foolery, sir, does walk about the orb like the sun,
And hold her free, I do beseech your honour.
I beseech your honour, ask me.
Thought nought too curious, are ready now
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come;
But, thieves, unworthy of a thing so stol'n,
Noble lady,
The salt in them is hot.
his events, with a prayer they may prove prosperous;
Enter FORTINBRAS, a Captain, and Soldiers, marching
were one. I would we were all of one mind, and one
Your faithful friends o' the suburbs? We shall have
He humbly prays your speedy payment.
I'll tell you news indifferent good for either.
Then lead the way, good father; and heavens so shine,
The chain unfinish'd made me stay thus long.
Would make me sad.
As praises, of whose taste the wise are fond,
The earth hath swallow'd all my hopes but she,
more owing her than is paid; and more shall be paid
Keep peace, upon your lives:
Timon is dead, who hath outstretch'd his span:
While I make way from hence to save my life:
'In witness whereof the parties interchangeably'--
Wilt thou serve me? for since patiently and
Seem'd not to strike, but smooth: but thou
'Zounds, it is even now at my elbow, persuading me
sighs of Octavia blow the fire up in Caesar; and, as
Lead, lead.
that alphabetical position portend? If I could make
Enter MICHAEL
Our kinsman Gloucester is as innocent
Toward Peloponnesus are they fled.
I cannot do it; yet I know no cause
So say I, madam, if he run away, as I hear he does:
His fears were, that the interview betwixt
spectatorship, and crueller in suffering; behold now
Come on; thou art granted space.
Because I will be guiltless of the meaning.
Madam, 'tis now in tune.
By nursing them, my lord. List a brief tale;
But when he frown'd, it was against the French
But tell me true, will't be a match?
In dreadful secrecy impart they did;
Hath sent you here this ring, and doth entreat
Say not we brought it.
Come, to the forge with it then; shape it: I would
Good sir, draw near to me, I'll speak to him.
My hand is ready; may it do him ease.
Appointed to direct these fair designs.
But floods of tears will drown my oratory,
her without her tongue. O, that woman that cannot
To revel it with him and his new bride.'
Hast thou not spirit to curse thine enemy?
Else had she with her father ranged along.
About the giving back the great seal to us,
And may not young men die, as well as old?
say, plucked down in the suburbs; and now she
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
you shall speed in your journey's end, I think you'll
But breeds the giver a return exceeding
I'll find about the making of the bed;
Exit
Enter Jessica
Whether the three Worthies shall come in or no.
Costard the swain and he shall be our sport;
And with this knife I'll help it presently.
My dearest love,
Your dicipline in war, wisdom in peace,
Though I am mad, I will not bite him: call.
It is the witness still of excellency
May be put from her by society:
Exeunt
What concern they?
Which you say adds to nature, is an art
Lord marshal, let me kiss my sovereign's hand,
Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
Do not swear, and eat it.
So much besmear it. Pardon me, good lady;
With this thin helm? Mine enemy's dog,
I your servant,
Whose was it?
Something in my behalf.
When I was got, I'll send his soul to hell.
In a long motley coat guarded with yellow,
sweet sewer.
More torches here! Come on then, let's to bed.
Nor stony tower, nor walls of beaten brass,
his face, if he be not fellow with the best king,
Time to be honest.
Which, since they are of you, and odious,
I dream'd there was an Emperor Antony:
Dying or ere they sicken.
Most true, forsooth; and many time and oft
Ay, lady, 'twas my word.
You are my true and honourable wife,
If then thy spirit look upon us now,
What will you do, good grey-beard? break a lance,
Ay, and this.
Tells Harry that the king doth offer him
Come in with me, Thersites.
Faints
He is most in the company of the right noble Claudio.
Remember, Jove, thou wast a bull for thy Europa; love
Who does beguile you? who does do you wrong?
Did look no better to that weighty charge.
fear the report of a caliver worse than a struck
Pope Innocent, I do demand of thee.
End in one purpose, and be all well borne
ANTIPHOLUS
My gracious lord, Henry your foe is taken,
The innocent mansion of my love, my heart;
Your highness said even now, I made you a duke:
Ascribe we all! When, without stratagem,
Away to heaven, respective lenity,
They seize and blindfold him
Enter MARIA and Clown
We will ourself in person to this war:
talk we of these traitorly rascals, whose miseries
Here comes Sir John.
Look to your little mistress, on whose grace
The reverend'st throat in Athens. So I leave you
Gramercies, Tranio, well dost thou advise.
To seek to put me down and reign thyself.
Yea, by mass, that it is.
'Tis sure enough, an you knew how.
Exeunt
But, as 'tis,
Muffle your false love with some show of blindness:
come? to see: why did he see? to overcome: to
be a flattering honest man, it must not be denied
entertainment.
Comes from my lord with letters.
insanie: anne intelligis, domine? to make frantic, lunatic.
The shapes of beasts upon them: Jupiter
To the Queen
See this dispatch'd with all the haste thou canst:
He hath refused it in the open court:
What, will my daughter prove a good musician?
Or fearing else some messenger that might her mind discover,
Go fetch them hither: if they deny to come.
Of all these learned men she was divorced,
state, shepherd.
I'll leave you, my sweet lady, for a while:
Look up; speak.
Pole!
To hear Cominius speak?
And I will see thee.
Exeunt
Trace the conjunction!
ears a fork'd one!
My Lord of York, try what your fortune is.
And Roman Lucrece for her chastity:
rubies, carbuncles, sapphires, declining their rich
All the remain is 'Welcome!'
I would I were a weaver; I could sing psalms or any
A prophet I, madam; and I speak the truth the next
To some more fitter place, and that with speed.
that let me inform you.
As merry as when our nuptial day was done,
A loving nurse, a mother to his youth.
Suffolk's imperial tongue is stern and rough,
I'll overtake you. Speak.
I' the field prove flatterers, let courts and cities be
Shall there attend you.
But that you have your father's bosom there
You have: I knew it would be your answer. Well,
SCENE IV. A nunnery.
Take not her part; for, if thou dost intend
Shake off slumber, and beware:
SCENE I. Athens. The palace of THESEUS.
But shall all our houses of resort in the suburbs be
Exit
O, give me pardon,
I know you by the waggling of your head.
That thou didst love her, strikes some scores away
what we may be. God be at your table!
That he hath a neighbourly charity in him, for he
If this inducement force her not to love,
Must tarre the mastiffs on, as 'twere their bone.
O Lord, he will hang upon him like a disease: he
And nothing of your answer.
Whither were you a-going?
Woo'd me to steal it; but she so loves the token,
Brags of his substance, not of ornament:
To go along with us; for as we think,
Bring us where we may rest ourselves and feed:
'Seese' and 'putter'! have I lived to stand at the
He knows not what he says: and vain it is
I love the lovely bully. What is thy name?
Whom I would save, had a most noble father!
But he's a tried and valiant soldier.
True ornaments to know a holy man.
To come with him along.
And fall thy edgeless sword: despair, and die!--
Prizes not quantity of dirty lands;
Exit
right butter-women's rank to market.
Trembled and shook; for why, he stamp'd and swore,
Although not valued to the money's worth.
Might come to me again. Who's there?
Do, young sir; your reputation shall not therefore
Nay, come your ways:
And such protest of pepper-gingerbread,
The scene you play were mine. For instance, sir,
Install'd lord archbishop of Canterbury.
From whose so many weights of baseness cannot
It is not yet near day. Come, go with me;
That, sir, which I will not report after her.
I'll knock elsewhere, to see if they'll disdain me.
And, in a word, for far behind his worth
Embrace each other's love in banishment;
And therefore frame your manners to the time.
upon no trail, never trust me when I open again.
Where thou thyself dost air;--the queen o' the sky,
Tarry, sweet soul, for mine, then fly abreast,
What vane? what weathercock? did you ever hear better?
That you have bid us ask his liberty;
To my unfolding lend your prosperous ear;
Aside
Like little body with a mighty heart,
Exeunt all but QUEEN MARGARET, CARDINAL, SUFFOLK, and YORK; SOMERSET remains apart
Not fearing outward force, so shall my lungs
No; we shall ne'er win at that sport, and stake down.
To be a torment to mine enemies?
But nothing alter'd: what I was, I am;
he shall reign; but I'll be protector over him.
comes himself.
ruttish: I pray you, sir, put it up again.
Ever right.
My daughter is not for thee; and now, in madness,
For, ladies, we shall every one be mask'd;
I'll dive into the burning lake below,
Fulvia is dead.
Show!
Drawn in the flattering table of her eye!
But by some unlook'd accident cut off!
As hell's from heaven! If it were now to die,
Ere the ninth hour, I drunk him to his bed;
Old Cassius still!
Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness may
I thought, by your readiness in the office, you had
To-morrow be in readiness to go:
Laying down her dagger
Fair love, you faint with wandering in the wood;
Aside
Agamemnon,
After his studies or his usual pain?
sum of money, be assailed by robbers and die in
Yes, I thank God I am as honest as any man living
To make him an example. All hope is gone,
door would speak with you: he says he comes from
Then half Signior Benedick's tongue in Count John's
Like the poor cat i' the adage?
What curious eye doth quote deformities?
England and Ireland, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
Being ne'er so little urged, another way
Are yours, my lord: I give them with this ring;
feigning; and lovers are given to poetry, and what
The dogs o' the street to bay me: every villain
And not a man of them shall have the grace,
To-morrow is the joyful day, Audrey; to-morrow will
That it may be this day read over in Paul's.
him: he had, sir, a kind of face, methought,--I
But shall I hear him speak?
To part from Rome; Caesar is sad; and Lepidus,
I have been broad awake two hours and more.
Son, how now! how now, son! have you dispatched?
I had been still a happy king of men.
desire you that we may be friends; and let us knog
Exit
For doubtless Burgundy will yield him help,
Came post with post; and every one did bear
But what's the matter?
From these old arms and legs, by the good gods,
And then?
ANTIPHOLUS
Let's make the best of it.
Persuade my heart to this false perjury?
Having full scarce six thousand in his troop.
Tubal, a wealthy Hebrew of my tribe,
paring, and so dies with feeding his own stomach.
From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother:
Brought me to Mytilene. But, good sir,
Which some suppose the soul's frail dwelling-house,
Re-enter LYSANDER
SCENE II. Camp near Sardis. Before BRUTUS's tent.
in this wise company? How dost thou, Apemantus?
Made my name once more noble. Now his son,
To set the exact wealth of all our states
proportion to live quietly, and so give over.
But your discretions better can persuade
Away, and let me die.
Your needful counsel to our business,
[Within]   Anon, anon.
That shall she, marry; I remember it well.
Be quiet and depart: thou shalt not have him.
Sweet Proteus, no; now let us take our leave.
Did I ever call for thee to pay thy part?
For law is strict, and war is nothing more.
Never, my lord.
Lucilius' Servant	So much?
And you in hell, as oft as he hears Owen Glendower spoke of.
Exit
When I, that censure him, do so offend,
Enter CLIFFORD
To points that seem impossible; for thou look'st
Song and dance
'Tis thine they give away, and not their own.
Now, Somerset, where is your argument?
The gods make this a happy day to Antony!
And when he heard him swear and vow to God
The peace between the French and us not values
Crying on Hector. Ajax hath lost a friend
They are well dispatch'd; now to my daughter's letter:
He, more incensed against your majesty
Thyself a queen, for me that was a queen,
To see the enclosed lights, now canopied
With variable complexions, all agreeing
This practise hath most shrewdly pass'd upon thee;
Solomon so seduced, and he had a very good wit.
I wish ye sport.
Shall we, upon the footing of our land,
O Dieu vivant! shall a few sprays of us,
Say, gentlemen, what makes you thus exclaim?
In any case, the offer of the king.
No more words, we beseech you.
Welcome, brave captain and victorious lord!
By Jove, I wonder, that is king of thoughts,
Lest men should say 'Look, where three-farthings goes!'
Even in the faith of valour, to appear
Thus says my king; an' if your father's highness
And never, whilst I live, deceive men so:
Hence, get thee gone, and follow me no more.
By this white glove;--how white the hand, God knows!--
Being ten times undervalued to tried gold?
Flout 'em and scout 'em
Go seek him there.
To BRUTUS
Who, being suffer'd with the bear's fell paw,
My royal fox could reach them: I have seen a medicine
And mine, I promise you; were't not for shame,
Not my virginity yet [         ]
When possibly I can, I will return.
This is not generous, not gentle, not humble.
Why, what's the matter?
He childed as I father'd! Tom, away!
Look pale as primrose with blood-drinking sighs,
Saw I men scour so on their way: I eyed them
deputy's wife of the ward to thee. Go, you thing,
That last is Biron, the merry madcap lord:
Ere I can perfect mine intents, to kneel:
Murder in healing wounds: then, noble partners,
horns upon his head, for a branch of victory. Have
Covering discretion with a coat of folly;
And, as I think, they have already order
And live; if no, then thou art doom'd to die.
No blown ambition doth our arms incite,
The expedition my violent love
Shall I endure the sight of Somerset?
I have a letter from Monsieur Biron to one Lady Rosaline.
No, you see, he is his argument that has his
Moreover, thou hast put them in prison; and because
And let the foes quietly cut their throats,
In cunning I must draw my sword upon you
Thrust from the company of awful men:
Exit
Set armed discord 'twixt these perjured kings!
He hath not told us of the captain yet:
She I kill'd! I did so: but thou strikest me
Noble lady,
Let me see, then.
I must not yet forsake you: let's be merry:
We have compounded on.
Nor what I have done by water.
Enter a Servant
In whom the tide rested, were suppress'd.
He shall not die; so much we tender him.
At young Elizabeth, my brother's daughter,
With such a costly loss of wealth and friends:
How know you he loves her?
Shall be the war that Henry means to use.
And most desire should meet the blow of justice;
Who is most inward with the royal duke?
To hazard all our lives in one small boat!
Now is Mortimer lord of this city. And here, sitting
Nor airless dungeon, nor strong links of iron,
To separate the husband and the wife.
Then have at you with my wit! I will dry-beat you
The gods best know,--
What then?
a good house; and for his ransom he will give you
Exit
What, a play toward! I'll be an auditor;
Go your ways, and ask of Doctor Caius' house which
Hope is a curtal dog in some affairs:
Which I must needs call mine: thou art a boil,
Give sentence on this execrable wretch,
Now, good my lord, lie here and rest awhile.
The night to the owl and morn to the lark
Though our silence be drawn from us with cars, yet peace.
Here comes a man; let's stay till he be past.
That's my noble master!
They'll tell the clock to any business that
Tortive and errant from his course of growth.
Exeunt. Alarums
Edward thy son, which now is Prince of Wales,
And cried 'Inestimable!'--why do you now
Most worthy prince, as yours, is true Guiderius:
Please you, sir,
Or council has respect with him but he.
Enter DUKE OF YORK and DUCHESS OF YORK
Your friends, sir; the hangman. You must be so
There was our error.
The sons of Edward sleep in Abraham's bosom,
It shall no longer grieve without reproof.
It may be death.
Take up a brace o' the best of them; yea, the
Whate'er Lord Harry Percy then had said
And stands alone.
If, by the tribunes' leave, and yours, good people,
I will consider; what you have to say
him; for she'll be up twenty times a night, and
Must Edward fall, which peril heaven forfend!
Who is it thou dost call usurper, France?
And then to crave a league of amity;
of thought, conceived of spleen and born of madness,
Doth your honour see any harm in his face?
Alexander the Great.
And then my soul shall wait on thee to heaven,
'Tis too much proved--that with devotion's visage
We have jaded out o' the field.
Go to my cave and tell me. Good old man,
Shall I go fetch your night-gown?
'Tis very true.
cattle of this colour; would now like him, now loathe
Hath beat down Menon: bastard Margarelon
No, my good lord; he speaks the common tongue,
part, I must needs confess, I have received some
My father's loss, the weakness which I feel,
And tells us, what occasion of import
Her highness is in safety, fear you not:
I reck not though I end my life to-day.
And by the happy hollow of a tree
She will attend it better in thy youth
And gives his potent regiment to a trull,
If thou keep promise, I shall end this strife,
Hang in what place you please. Here, my good lord.
Be't so: declare thine office.
time for all things.
When I was with him I have heard him swear
Cut my heart in sums.
O valiant cousin! worthy gentleman!
Were then my fellows; now they are my men.
and 'no' to every thing that I said!--'Ay' and 'no'
My oil-dried lamp and time-bewasted light
In praises sauced with lies.
Do you dare our anger?
They sit conferring by the parlor fire.
Go in to him, and fetch him out.
And what was he?
Be it forbid, my lord!
Our griefs, and not our manners, reason now.
The friends of France our shrouds and tacklings?
Should rob my bed-mate of my company.
What, jealous Oberon! Fairies, skip hence:
Enter CLEOPATRA, attended
Thou hast saved me a thousand marks in links and
What a strange drowsiness possesses them!
And ready mounted are they to spit forth
done? It must be a very plausive invention that
But we the doers.
Shall seize one half his goods; the other half
Here lives a caitiff wretch would sell it him.'
Till thou have audience.
I haste now to my setting: I shall fall
Even till that utmost corner of the west
without 'em?
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice;
But all's not done; yet keep the French the field.
the spirit of putting down kings and princes,
bolder to chide you for yours.
And, which is more than all these boasts can be,
for you did bring me out.
Stuff'd, as they say, with honourable parts,
Captain Macmorris, when there is more better
complexion.
Chosen Andronicus, surnamed Pius
Wind away,
Thy honourable metal may be wrought
Please you command, a thousand times as much; And yet--
And made me climb, with danger of my life.
Tell Athens, in the sequence of degree
Can a woman rail thus?
Whispers a Lord, who goes off in the barge of LYSIMACHUS
And reason too:
What rub or what impediment there is,
If there be here German, or Dane, low Dutch,
O Tranio, till I found it to be true,
Lesser than Macbeth, and greater.
Or both dissemble deeply their affections:
chaste as Diana, unless I be obtained by the manner
Sleep a little.
O inglorious league!
Do use to chant it: it is silly sooth,
That I extend my manners; 'tis my breeding
You have Christian warrant for 'em, and, no doubt,
Lord regent, I do greet your excellence
Speak suddenly, my lords, are we all friends?
To me, should utter, with demure confidence
Next time I'll keep my dreams unto myself,
portend these divisions! fa, sol, la, mi.
Because you bought them: shall I say to you,
Shall she live to betray this guilt of ours,
Enter OSWALD
Who Pyramus presented, in their sport
outlive that day to see His greatness and to teach
Come.
Droop not; adieu. Farewell, my wife, my mother:
O, fellow, come, the song we had last night.
O good Iago,
O, this is hire and salary, not revenge.
cannot abide the old woman of Brentford; he swears
By every syllable a faithful verity:
If this division chance, ne'er stood between,
That, if my speech offend a noble heart,
Relenting fool, and shallow, changing woman!
such dispositions as he bears, this last
Confounds the tongue and makes the senses rough.
Then, Jupiter, thou king of gods,
Unarm, sweet Hector.
But ever see that man!
To PHEBE
Dear lady daughter, peace! Sweet sovereign,
Send danger from the east unto the west,
Even in the presence of the crowned king.
So, so: well done, well done:
And wherefore call'd Marina?
Why, I have eat none yet.
Madam, I will.
If thou kill'st me, boy, thou shalt kill a man.
If imputation and strong circumstances,
With so eternal and so fix'd a soul.
To view the artillery and munition;
Nothing: I have sworn; I am firm.
The man that gave them thee. Thou art some fool;
O, ay; as summer flies are in the shambles,
That have of late so huddled on his back,
Do but hear me, sir.
So when he had occasion to be seen,
ACT III
Which should undo more doing: ay, and thou,
Have in these parts from morn till even fought
That Marcius shall be consul:
Al'ce madam, or Joan madam?
I am paid for't now.
Alas, what noise?
And I be pleased to give ten thousand ducats
And, by device, let blockish Ajax draw
father was called Philip of Macedon, as I take it.
as his finger. And thou wert best look to't; for if
Come, citizens: 'zounds! I'll entreat no more.
Which quired with my drum, into a pipe
Would with his daughter speak, commands her service:
I am fear'd in field and town:
With cadent tears fret channels in her cheeks;
And bid the main flood bate his usual height;
Humbling their deities to love, have taken
More pangs and fears than wars or women have:
I am almost mad myself: I had a son,
In hateful practise. First, his integrity
cheer.' So a' cried out 'God, God, God!' three or
For ere Demetrius look'd on Hermia's eyne,
Achilles is a fool to be commanded of Agamemnon;
Must by us both be spent most preciously.
Between us and the emperor, the queen's great nephew,
Juliet, the county stays.
Such fiery numbers as the prompting eyes
I would your grace would take me with you: whom
Her father keeps from all access of suitors,
Without the help of any hand at all.
On my life, my lord, a bubble.
Do thou but call my resolution wise,
Then you'll buy 'em to sell again.
So is it in the music of men's lives.
for him have I offended. I pause for a reply.
of me? shall I not take mine case in mine inn but I
'Tis you must dig with mattock and with spade,
The ravish'd Helen, Menelaus' queen,
Myself will straight aboard: and to the state
Or any token of thine honour else,
That he's undrown'd.
Her and her fortunes: none would look on her,
Call by thy trumpet: he that dares approach,
And golden Phoebus never be beheld
Drawn with a team of little atomies
not here thy gait.'
What is thy name? and wherefore comest thou hither,
Is this an hour for temporal affairs, ha?
Reward to him that brings the traitor in?
Speed then, to take advantage of the field.
Tell me their words as near as thou canst guess them.
Cannot be well bestow'd.
No, no, no, your son was misled with a snipt-taffeta
Ay, and to wage this battle at Pharsalia.
[Aside]  A little more than kin, and less than kind.
There spake my brother; there my father's grave
My mind's not on't; you are too hard for me.
Exeunt
Of these most brisk and giddy-paced times:
Hope of revenge shall hide our inward woe.
Have you heard of no likely wars toward, 'twixt the
If thou dost love, my kindness shall incite thee
As enemy to the people and his country:
I mean our preservation, few in millions
a wooden dagger; and they are both hanged; and so
I am pale, Charmian.
When all her chivalry hath been in France
To mend her kissing with!
To-day, to-day, unhappy day, too late,
air; and, as I am a gentleman, betook myself to
Put on thee by my lord, thou ne'er shalt see
If we recover that, we are sure enough.
passion came so near the life of passion as she
Then hear me speak in indifferently for all;
The air will drink the sap. To every county
Why are you breathless? and why stare you so?
That doth invert the attest of eyes and ears,
ANTIPHOLUS
To draw with idle spiders' strings
unbolted villain into mortar, and daub the wall of
pretty chopt hands had milked; and I remember the
For that I am prepared and full resolved.
Ch'ill not let go, zir, without vurther 'casion.
They must be bound and laid in some dark room.
Than bear so low a sail, to strike to thee.
seems to tie their friendship together will be the
time and worms have eaten them, but not for love.
Why, then I will do what your grace commands.
if thou beest a devil, take't as thou list.
Thus would I eat it.
None of these rogues and cowards
Where they did spend a sad and bloody hour,
But if I could, by Him that gave me life,
For my lads to give their dears:
a face as yours were.
Exeunt
Even as a splitted bark, so sunder we
Yea, strike the Dauphin blind to look on us.
'O that these hands could so redeem my son,
Proportion'd as one's thought would wish a man;
Anon comes one with light to ope the tomb;
Then move not, while my prayer's effect I take.
Fall deep in love with thee; and her great charms
Menenius, you are known well enough too.
All by the name of dogs: the valued file
Re-enter DESDEMONA, attended
Marry, God forbid his grace should say us nay!
That is, a woman; if you be more, you're none;
The holy water from her heavenly eyes,
He fell upon me ere admitted: then
Twice treble shame on Angelo,
lesser linen. My father named me Autolycus; who
My casket and my jewels; and bid Nicander
And well are worth the want that you have wanted.
May trumpet to the world: my heart's subdued
And send them after to supply our wants;
Speaking lower
Sir, it is a mystery.
Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me:
As when his virtues shining upon others
Dies
too little for your thief, your true man thinks it
You taught me but while-ere?
I have consider'd of a course. Good lady,
That set'st the word itself against the word!
marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough
Lest barbarism, making me the precedent,
I think she stirs again:--no. What's best to do?
My friend is dead; 'tis done at your request:
To Ireland, Poictiers, Anjou, Touraine, Maine,
Which sorrow is always towards ourselves, not heaven,
Nay, then she must needs come.
Come hither, gracious sovereign, view this body.
He fumbles up into a lose adieu,
Even to the hall, to hear what shall become
Exit
There is none: man, sitting down before you, will
Shall I be charged no further than this present?
[Aside to AGRIPPA]  That year, indeed, he was
beard ere the black ones were there. To say 'ay'
All's done, my lord.
I stagger in:--but this new governor
I bleed inwardly for my lord.
Which is so plain that Exeter doth wish
Things done without example, in their issue
That Benedick loves Beatrice so entirely?
Full of warm blood, of mirth, of gossiping.
Masters, masters,--
It is so, indeed; he is no less than a stuffed man:
I would, therefore, my sister had had no name, sir.
He labour'd in his country's wreck, I know not;
What dost you mean by this?
Exit
He's welcome.
Some sixteen months, and longer might have stay'd,
A ram, and bleated; and the fire-robed god,
youth to an answer. I think oxen and wainropes
stand bald before him: our general himself makes a
I, that was wash'd to death with fulsome wine,
With all my heart, my lord.
Coriolanus will carry it.
word. I will rather leave to see Hector, than
True hope is swift, and flies with swallow's wings:
Madam, your mother craves a word with you.
See whether their basest metal be not moved;
Smile, gentle heaven! or strike, ungentle death!
A confused noise within:   'Mercy on us!'--  'We split, we split!'--'Farewell, my wife and  children!'-- 'Farewell, brother!'--'We split, we split, we split!'
beside the Tyrian vessel.
Not mine; my gloves are on.
And, lords, accept this hearty kind embrace:
The rabble should have first unroof'd the city,
Farewell; and if my fortune be not crost,
Boult, take her away; use her at thy pleasure:
Ne'er issued from his blood. Take my defiance!
His word is more than the miraculous harp; he hath
Come I appellant to this princely presence.
Wiped off, in honourable keeping her.
Who shall I command, sir?
And she as much in love, her means much less
A bird of my tongue is better than a beast of yours.
Mock-vater! vat is dat?
I will endure, and I'll employ thee too:
Please it your majesty to give me leave,
I will deny thee nothing.
I'll do 't, my lord.
Now, like a man of steel. You that will fight,
than beauteous, truer than truth itself, have
have rather blamed as mine own jealous curiosity
A goodly lady, trust me; of the hue
SCENE IV. A camp in Wales.
You come to fright us.
Noise within
Troilus, by Menelaus.
Strike at the heaven with your staves as lift them
Betroth'd and would have married her perforce
Should be call'd tyrants, butchers, murderers!
Your Rome about your ears.
And I do fear them.
I pray you, good Horatio, wait upon him.
My good lord,
My last good deed was to entreat his stay:
Matters of needful value. We shall write to you,
Nay, that you shall not: since you have begun,
Putting on SIR HUMPHREY'S brigandine
To see your wives dishonour'd to your noses,--
Than Jephthah's, when he sacrificed his daughter.
To you a charge and trouble: to save both,
Were I the wearer of Antonius' beard,
Become a Christian and thy loving wife.
We'll yoke together, like a double shadow
the world, and to live in a nook merely monastic.
The sinew and the forehand of our host,
Witness the process of your speech, wherein
From the Count Orsino, is it?
as had as lieve hear the devil as a drum; such as
Boding to all--he had my handkerchief.
We have a trifling foolish banquet towards.
do you no harm to learn.
Falstaff, that old white-bearded Satan.
It is the law, not I condemn your brother:
him: and at my entreaty forbear his presence
I am loath to tell you what I would you knew.
For youth is bought more oft than begg'd or borrow'd.
Than flatter him in a bower. Here is Cominius.
That could be moved to smile at any thing.
The several caskets to this noble prince.
Yet look to have them buzz to offend thine ears.
May carry through itself to that full issue
Unless she do it under this excuse,
In their so sacred paths he dares to tread
mounsieur, bring me the honey-bag. Do not fret
If that be all the difference in his love,
debts are cleared between you and I, if I might but
As toss'd it upon shore.
Ourselves alone. I'll write it: follow me.
heir-apparent? should I turn upon the true prince?
This, and all else
Thy father was the Duke of Milan and
Little knows this love in me:
Exeunt
A good rebuke,
And summon him to marriage. Now he goes,
Naught, naught all, naught! I can behold no longer:
Even such a woman oweth to her husband;
Upon your never-withering banks of flowers:
Home-keeping youth have ever homely wits.
Farewell.
Before you fight the battle, ope this letter.
Which therein works a miracle in nature,
As great in blood as I myself.--
At our great bidding?
I'll tell you how these lands are to be got.
Not you, my brother, with your true sword drawn,
And I in going, madam, weep o'er my father's death
If e'er I loved her, all that love is gone.
Do, good old grandsire; and withal make known
Is't come to this? In faith, hath not the world
And with the brands fire the traitors' houses.
Andronicus, stain not thy tomb with blood:
Witness these trenches made by grief and care,
O! O! O!
And, though thou think me poor, I am the man
And will revolt from me to succor him.
my lady talk of it yesterday; and of a foolish
Thou art like one of those fellows that when he
I am Cinna the poet, I am Cinna the poet.
But that his negligence, his folly, fear,
A noise within, 'Down with the tawny-coats!'
Hath, for a few light crowns, lightly conspired,
Exeunt Executioners
And dare, upon the warrant of my note,
Madam, I will.
The business of the state does him offence,
Not Priamus and Hecuba on knees,
Exeunt
Wall holds up his fingers
Transported, with no worse nor better guard
Fetch hither the swain: he must carry me a letter.
colours. But to return to the verses: did they
Untent his person and share the air with us?
He begg'd of me to steal it.
For thy great bounty, that not only givest
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
To take him in the purging of his soul,
Is self from self: a deadly banishment!
choose me a husband. O me, the word 'choose!' I may
O villain! thy lips are scarce wiped since thou
This only is the witchcraft I have used:
Mass, and my elbow itched; I thought there would a
Directly.
Each one already blazing by our meeds,
shall beat out my brains with billets: I will not
Fit to govern!
Of that victorious stock; and let us fear
How! the prince is a Jack, a sneak-cup: 'sblood, an
The castle royally is mann'd, my lord,
He robs himself that spends a bootless grief.
'Tis just the fashion: wherefore do you look
let him tell the king: we are prepared. I will set
My lord?
When you curse them as enemies.
Hereditary ours.
Your grace shall understand that at the receipt of
Lest it discomfort us. Lucilius, come;
Of two most rare affections! Heavens rain grace
One time will owe another.
To whom?
ACT IV
knees; that she would make a puritan of the devil,
My half-supp'd sword, that frankly would have fed,
What with our help, what with the absent king,
O, they are at it!
And I for no woman.
And I should rob the deathsman of his fee,
Death, having prey'd upon the outward parts,
Robin Starveling, you must play Thisby's mother.
But few,
How grounded he his title to the crown,
Not shriving-time allow'd.
honour, who hath made this match, and his friend's
back: call you that backing of your friends? A
If my offence be of such mortal kind
an oak but with one green leaf on it would have
Alas, alas!
Report of fashions in proud Italy,
I come to know what prisoners thou hast ta'en
With your sedged crowns and ever-harmless looks,
Is not thy master with him? who, were't so,
Yet, dread Priam,
Nay, all of you that stand and look upon,
Enter SIR ANDREW
Pray you, tread softly, that the blind mole may not
A tucket
That mercy does, for calumny will sear
Enter LEONATO, ANTONIO, HERO, BEATRICE, and others
called which I apprehended with the aforesaid
him. He was first smoked by the old lord Lafeu:
Then, Joan, discover thine infirmity,
Is there none here to give the woman?
Who am prepared against your territories,
That he you hurt is of great fame in Cyprus,
Strike not a stroke, but keep yourselves in breath:
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,--
How ugly night comes breathing at his heels:
We are.
Never was monarch better fear'd and loved
Thou gavest thine ears like tapsters that bid welcome
This by the eye of Cynthia hath she vow'd
Sir Thomas,
Which God defend a knight should violate!--
The traitorous Warwick with the men of Bury
are metamorphosed with a mistress, that, when I look
Why would he for the momentary trick
That she may quickly come.
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Enter SIR JOHN SOMERVILLE
Gone to seek his dog; which tomorrow, by his
What shall I call thee when thou art a man?
of your quality; come, a passionate speech.
Which in the soldier is flat blasphemy.
Exit
Stay, murderous villains! will you kill your brother?
Exit
I love thee infinitely. But hark you, Kate;
What tongueless blocks were they! would not they speak?
Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
Has only sent his present occasion now, my lord;
His bloody sword he brandish'd over me,
Thy beck might from the bidding of the gods
Which oft our stage hath shown; and, for their sake,
And leave your brothers to go speed elsewhere.
A short alarum
During this song they pinch FALSTAFF. DOCTOR CAIUS  comes one way, and steals away a boy in green;  SLENDER another way, and takes off a boy in white;  and FENTON comes and steals away ANN PAGE.  A noise of hunting is heard within. All the  Fairies run away. FALSTAFF pulls off his buck's head, and rises
who are of such sensible and nimble lungs that
What, do you grumble? I'll be with you straight.
short daughter.
and drown himself, it is, will he, nill he, he
I will.
She will not.
That guard, and most unusual vigilance,
After your will, have cross'd the sea, attending
Exit EDGAR
My unsoil'd name, the austereness of my life,
But some uncleanly apprehensions
Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou: I would my
They say, in care of your most royal person,
That breath fame blows; that praise, sole sure,
Trumpet, blow loud,
Killing myself, to die upon a kiss.
mouth, I would bite; if I had my liberty, I would do
the supportance of his vow; he protests he will not hurt you.
That can sing both high and low:
I pray thee, cease thy counsel,
How?
Vows are but breath, and breath a vapour is:
Save you, Master Doctor Caius!
She hath no tongue to call, nor hands to wash;
I know. Thus far can I praise him; he is of a noble
I am always bound to you.
We wawl and cry. I will preach to thee: mark.
And his affairs come to me on the wind.
In bitterness. The common executioner,
For that which thou hast done,--must send thee hence
And fetch shrill echoes from the hollow earth.
We sent to thee, to give thy rages balm,
I speak amazedly; and it becomes
bill; and many a time, when I have been dry and
liberte, le franchisement.
After him, fellows; bring him to the block.
Here come more.
translated.
in buckram that I told thee of--
Enter BAPTISTA, GREMIO, TRANIO, KATHARINA, BIANCA, LUCENTIO, and others, attendants
And to make us no better thought of, a little help
To greet mine own land with my wishful sight.
If thou dost break her virgin-knot before
One of the prettiest touches of all and that which
SCENE I. Rousillon. The COUNT's palace.
And the detention of long-since-due debts,
True, too true, my lord:
I will help you, if I can:
Come, come, you talk greasily; your lips grow foul.
And makes her pew-fellow with others' moan!
Now put it, God, in the physician's mind
And follows so the ever-running year,
Else let my brother die,
the dove, crowned with an earl's coronet.
partridge wing saved, for the fool will eat no
But God in mercy so deal with my soul,
She would be as swift in motion as a ball;
her to try with main-course.
Shall I try friends: you shall perceive how you
Whence came you, sir?
More penitence than done trespass: at the last,
Than men their minds! 'tis true.
But are they, Ariel, safe?
Let him confess a truth.
And on the ragged stones beat forth our brains,
For your displeasure; but all will sure be well.
Shall sit and pant in your great chairs of ease,
Patience, good sir; do not assist the storm.
Methinks you are my glass, and not my brother:
Presently
As I conceive the journey, be at the Mount
My mistress made it one upon my cheek:
And make her airy tongue more hoarse than mine,
For there was never yet philosopher
With my two daughters' dowers digest this third:
Sennet. Flourish. Exeunt all but VERNON and BASSET
A s mine is to him?
Than your consent gives strength to make it fly.
Gentle my lord, turn back.
Writ in remembrance more than things long past:
I'll not meddle with it: it is a dangerous thing: it
For that, being one o' the lowest, basest, poorest,
This something-settled matter in his heart,
For what offence?
him our commission; talk no more.
Well; come to me to-morrow.
age to show himself a young gallant! What an
To entertain me as your steward still.
I think, by some odd gimmors or device
And now be it known to you my full intent.
Sir, understand you this of me in sooth:
Nay, but I know who loves him.
What may you be? are you of good or evil?
the scale.
Enter VINCENTIO
No, that were pity:
all the records of the realm: my mouth shall be
Tell me how thy lady does.'
And thou by some incensed god sent hither
Resolvedly more leisure shall express:
And, for the morning now is something worn,
I tell thee, Jack Cade the clothier means to dress
Ay, by any means prove a tall fellow: if I do not
Thanks, noble Clarence; worthy brother, thanks.
it provokes the desire, but it takes
Exeunt guard with MARGARET JOURDAIN, SOUTHWELL,  and c
And, stickler-like, the armies separates.
Very true;
But, by the mass, our hearts are in the trim;
Say, can you fast? your stomachs are too young;
Am I to you.
Is warlike John; and in his forehead sits
devotion than can render it him; and leaves
CORIOLANUS offers to go away
almost as great as his honesty; had it stretched so
Which must be even as swiftly follow'd as
It nothing ill becomes thee.
Cousin, on Wednesday next our council we
Yes, being kept together and put to use.
likeness, he must appear naked and blind. Can you
I would speak blasphemy ere bid you fly:
Into his ruin'd ears, and thus deliver:
I have not that alacrity of spirit,
And for your rapier most especially,
O, when she had writ it and was reading it over, she
By guileful fair words peace may be obtain'd.
To give the judgment.
Thy life hath had some smatch of honour in it:
Exit
I know him not.
Would it be better, madam, than I am?
Signior Antonio, many a time and oft
Here comes Sir Toby halting; you shall hear more:
How you shall bid God 'ild us for your pains,
I say, a husband.
Exit EMILIA
you never heard of!
Would not 'scape censure, nor the redresses sleep,
And that you'll say, ere half an hour pass.
'Tis well blown, lads:
Well met, well met, Master Antipholus.
talk of horse and armour?
Sir, I cannot tell:
And buz these conjurations in her brain.
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak,
That smooth-faced gentleman, tickling Commodity,
With your theme, I could
This is most certain that I shall deliver:
You straight are on your knees for pardon, pardon;
Go on, and fetch our horses back again.
The very persons of our noble story
'Twas where the madcap duke his uncle kept,
By our permission, is allow'd to make.
Than can yourself yourself in twain divide:
When thou dost ask me blessing, I'll kneel down,
motion generative; that's infallible.
Truly, madam, he holds Belzebub at the staves's end as
Was nursed with Cleon; who at fourteen years
If you deny me, fie upon your law!
Toward the king, my ever royal master,
me say, 'saving your reverence, a husband:' and bad
That, he awaking when the other do,
And whirl along with thee about the globe.
No, my lord;
Didst thou not hear somebody?
Go make thyself like a nymph o' the sea: be subject
Every letter he hath writ hath disvouched other.
And from each other look thou lead them thus,
Exceeds, in that, the lists of all advice
To mow down thorns that would annoy our foot,
ANTIPHOLUS
ACT II
Keep in your bosom: yet remain assured
Their watches on unto mine eyes, the outward watch,
I thought she had some great matter there in hand;
The white hand of a lady fever thee,
Prove me, my gracious sovereign.
ANTIPHOLUS
This child of fancy, that Armado hight,
Stand aside, good bearer. Boyet, you can carve;
Re-enter LUCETTA
I want more uncles here to welcome me.
Enter the Sheriff, and BUCKINGHAM, with halberds, led to execution
This tractable obedience is a slave
Exit CLAUDIO
Enter CAPHIS, and the Servants of Isidore and Varro
Go thy ways, Kate:
When the false Troyan under sail was seen,
I say again, there is no English soul
Whom I employ'd was pre-employ'd by him:
This other doth command a little door
For swallowing the treasure of the realm:
The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city:
Nourish the cause of his awaking: I
And shows the ragged entrails of the pit:
SCENE I. The rebel camp near Shrewsbury.
the thunder would not peace at my bidding; there I
But yet let reason govern thy lament.
'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarce
I rather would entreat thy company
Exit ANDROMACHE
To Roger Earl of March, who was the son
Now, princely Buckingham, seal thou this league
[Within]                 Come I too late?
tongue, and I thine, most truly-falsely, must needs
O, my sweet sir, news fitting to the night,
A lie that it must bear? Well, I will do't:
His words were these: that Richard, Duke of York,
Hath so betray'd thine act: being done unknown,
Besides, I heard the banish'd Norfolk say
Mock-water, in our English tongue, is valour, bully.
Against the French, that met them in their bent,
day does night; it's spritely, waking, audible, and
Villain, be sure thou prove my love a whore,
[Within]  Cry, Trojans!
Has friendship such a faint and milky heart,
With lusty sinews, throwing it aside
To where you are bound, you must inquire your way,
Till thou shalt know the reason of my love:
Very ready, sir.
Exeunt
And in his parties, his alliance; let him be
their hands; let thy blood and spirit embrace them;
With honour to maintain.
We have done our obsequies: come, lay him down.
He hath honour'd me of late; and I have bought
To fool their preparation, and to conquer
yet he talked wisely, and in the street too.
As much for my poor brother as myself:
under that title because I am merry. Yea, but so I
If that thy valour stand on sympathy,
I have forgot the map.
That is removed by a staff of France;
Bid me farewell, and let me hear thee going.
Sleep that knits up the ravell'd sleeve of care,
I loved your father, and we love ourself;
madman: fie on him!
behavior. We are not to stay all together, but to
Farewell, sweet madam: but hark you, Margaret;
In the relief of this oppressed child
Did ever Dian so become a grove
With tears as salt as sea, through thy unkindness:
Thy dukedom I resign and do entreat
The king comes here to-night.
Speak freely.
Of every wind that blows.
In deep of night to walk by this Herne's oak:
upon the church-bench till two, and then all to bed.
And how was that ta'en up?
Exeunt
What should you fear?
Hath to it circumstantial branches, which
Amidst the other; whose medicinable eye
Thy company, which erst was irksome to me,
To do them good, I would sustain some harm.
Proceed, Moon.
Fall to the base earth from the firmament.
Then I would he were here alone; so should he be
'Tis time to part.
Who, on my soul, hath wilfully betray'd
That I may speak with you, O, good my lord!
intelligence in his power against you, and that with
For mine own ends; indeed, to gain the popedom,
What shall become of this? what will this do?
I do remember.
Whom we, to gain our peace, have sent to peace,
Enter GLOUCESTER, led by an Old Man
What she should shame to know herself
Thy prime of manhood daring, bold, and venturous,
Are you not ashamed? let the clothes alone.
Too rashly plotted: all our general force
Many times, madam.
is basest, doth tread. I shall be forsworn, which
Both dame and servant; welcomed all, served all;
Of which if you should here disfurnish me,
Princes, it is too late to talk of love;
Bells in your parlors, wild-cats in your kitchens,
Which is the best to furnish me to-morrow.
Ay, sir, I have a pretty wit.
Or else new form'd 'em; having both the key
banished with her father?
Absolute madness could so far have raved
bolting-hutch of beastliness, that swollen parcel
Till that my nails were anchor'd in thine eyes;
Be executed in his father's sight.
Ay, or surly borne,--
Come:
And I will use him for my minstrelsy.
Pray you, be gone.
Making them women of good carriage:
Once more, my Lord of Winchester, I charge you,
Will be as rash in the repeal, as hasty
Yet lives our pilot still. Is't meet that he
Mourn not, except thou sorrow for my good;
And silence those whom this vile brawl distracted.
Enter DIOMEDES
Days and nights has thirty-one
'Item: She doth talk in her sleep.'
By gar, nor I too: there is no bodies.
Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one:
The anger of the king nor guilty of,
Say on: an if it please me which thou speak'st
Re-enter PRINCE HENRY and POINS
Nay, that shall not serve your turn; that shall not,
A fever in your blood! why, then incision
God match me with a good dancer!
As thou lovest Silvia, though not for thyself,
Old Gaunt indeed, and gaunt in being old:
From any dram of mercy.
A poor earl's daughter is unequal odds,
cuckold's horns. Master Brook, thou shalt know I
Poor tributary rivers as sweet fish.
Well, he may chance to do some good on her:
Cast her fair eyes to heaven and pray'd devoutly.
Doth more solicit me than your exclaims,
They thus directed, we will follow
And misbegotten blood I spill of thine,
Neither.
I dare your worst objections: if I blush,
Attend upon Cominius to these wars.
of fashion: richly suited, but unsuitable: just
A combination and a form indeed,
No; if I mistake
A time, methinks, too short
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
ANTIPHOLUS
Alack, alack, that heaven should practise stratagems
Renown'd in Padua for her scolding tongue.
There's none within.
And send it to the king: he for the same
And now the house of York, thrust from the crown
the grate, like a geminy of baboons. I am damned in
O monstrous! but one half-penny-worth of bread to
Capering to eye her: on a trice, so please you,
Dower'd with our curse, and stranger'd with our oath,
Enter KING HENRY VI and GLOUCESTER, with the Lieutenant, on the walls
And thou shalt hunt a lion, that will fly
Lo, here upon thy cheek the stain doth sit
to be married to hell?
Are you not ashamed? I think you have killed the
Yet freshly pitied in our memories.
Villain, thou shalt fast for thy offences ere thou
Long sitting to determine poor men's causes
not to Leonato's?
Free lords, cold snow melts with the sun's hot beams.
Exit SCARUS
Come you to seek the lamb here of the fox?
Then let confusion of one part confirm
To bear the golden yoke of sovereignty,
Either his gracious promise, which you might,
Exit FASTOLFE
Small as an eunuch, or the virgin voice
She died, my lord, but whiles her slander lived.
If you had known the virtue of the ring,
Enter GLOUCESTER, and Servants with torches
And on the justice of my flying hence,
To try my fortune. By this scimitar
Why, here's a girl! I think she knows not well,
Teaching stern murder how to butcher thee:
From Tripolis, from Mexico and England,
door. Follow my heels, Rugby.
Of your chaste daughter the wide difference
In the deep bosom of the ocean buried.
To thrust his icy fingers in my maw,
With heads, and not with hands; those whom you curse
for yours. If you think I come hither as a lion, it
Nay, hear me, Hubert, drive these men away,
And 'tis great pity that the noble Moor
Had I a glass, I would.
and scoured.
I pray thee, do on them some violent death;
o'er a cold decree: such a hare is madness the
'twere come to that!
furred with fox and lamb-skins too, to signify, that
By gar, 'tis good; vell said.
She had transform'd me to a curtal dog and made
Indeed, my lord,
That ever spider twisted from her womb
Kate of Kate Hall, my super-dainty Kate,
Yes, madam; but I think your grace,
Enter a Messenger
To send me packing with an host of men:
I'll decline the whole question. Agamemnon commands
brawl: souls and bodies hath he divorced three; and
Throng to the bar, crying all, Guilty! guilty!
With his tinct gilded thee.
Therefore, great lords, be, as your titles witness,
With Ate by his side come hot from hell,
literatured in the wars.
Let it be so. Sir John,
The marshal's truncheon, nor the judge's robe,
Fetch me that flower; the herb I shew'd thee once:
No, I am an ape.
The glow-worm shows the matin to be near,
What is he more than another?
Shall she within my power.
Cousin of Hereford, what dost thou object
My liege, one word.
Leads ancient lords and reverend bishops on
I do not know
By circumstance, to curse thy cursed self.
ears ere it be out.
Happy the parents of so fair a child;
Enter LUCIUS with an army of Goths, with drum and colours
He's mad that trusts in the tameness of a wolf, a
Will you walk, sir?
Cap and knee slaves, vapours, and minute-jacks!
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your
And gives memorial dainty kisses to it,
And I in better state than e'er I was.
The noise of battle hurtled in the air,
blackberries? a question not to be asked. Shall
Oh, no, no, no, no: my meaning in saying he is a
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
O, wert thou for myself! But, Suffolk, stay;
Haply your eye shall light upon some toy
If I revolt, off goes young George's head;
But thankful even for hate, that is meant love.
But Barnardine must die this afternoon:
Ba, most silly sheep with a horn. You hear his learning.
On the fair daughter of rich Capulet:
Have been mine so that evermore they pointed
To Cato's daughter, Brutus' Portia:
Commit a thing so monstrous, to dismantle
My duty, madam, and most humble service.
To furnish Rome, and to prepare the ways
Think'st thou that I will leave my kingly throne,
sin, and sin is damnation. Thou art in a parlous
A crew of pirates came and rescued me;
Is dear Lavinia, dearer than my soul.
Here's another ballad of a fish, that appeared upon
That malice bears down truth. And I beseech you,
Call up Lord Stanley, bid him bring his power:
I'll keep them all;
never see thy face but I think upon hell-fire and
Yes, faith, my lord.
Look on his letter, madam; here's my passport.
What think you of this fool, Malvolio? doth he not mend?
Those provinces these arms of mine did conquer:
In thy just proof, repeals and reconciles thee.
Signior Baptista's liberality,
Hang in the air a thousand leagues from hence,
And top extremity.
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
Caesar sends greeting to the Queen of Egypt;
With piercing steel at bold Mercutio's breast,
Exeunt OLIVIA and MARIA
For I am sure, when he shall see our army,
These things being bought and orderly bestow'd,
Fellow, why dost thou show me thus to the world?
What is your will?
Will you swear
a jakes with him. Spare my gray beard, you wagtail?
You promised me to wed.
No use of metal, corn, or wine, or oil;
Then it is thus: the passions of the mind,
With foreheads villanous low.
Which never dreamt on aught but butcheries:
Do you hear, you minion? you'll let us in, I hope?
Show me a thousand that have done thee wrong,
Dolabella!
O heavens!
How now, daughter! what makes that frontlet on?
What would you say, if I should let you speak?
This letter from Bellario doth commend
Foreknowing that the truth will fall out so.
And give me mine again.
Catesby!
Say 'better:' here comes one of my master's kinsmen.
Duncan comes here to-night.
In seeming to augment it wastes it? Be advised:
Before I would have granted to that act.
yet to do; and here, where you are, they are coming
One kiss shall stop our mouths, and dumbly part;
Again: if any Syracusian born
I have sixty sails, Caesar none better.
Betwixt your eyes and night?
As hateful as Cocytus' misty mouth.
Fear not thou, man, thou shalt lose nothing here.
what straits of fortune she is driven; and it is
I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
And grievously hath Caesar answer'd it.
Your honour's players, heating your amendment,
Why, you speak like an ancient and most quiet
To pluck this crawling serpent from my breast!
A thing for me? it is a common thing--
Each one demand an answer to his part
I know his lordship is but merry with me;
My lord, I am guiltless, as I am ignorant
Where's Potpan, that he helps not to take away? He
You see what mischief and what murder too
Not I	what are you?
the angry law; do no stain to your own gracious
Bear him ashore. I'll pledge it for him, Pompey.
Sir, it is
To eke it and to draw it out in length,
Than lady, ladies, woman; from every one
Exeunt
Now, my Titania; wake you, my sweet queen.
world he is: if I find a hole in his coat, I will
O misery on't!--the wise gods seel our eyes;
Exeunt
Peace, peace!
Even then this forked plague is fated to us
I read that I profess, the Art to Love.
Amity too, of your brave father, whom,
But thou slew'st Tybalt; there are thou happy too:
When every goose is cackling, would be thought
With the consent of supreme Jove, inform
he should take his choice. O admirable man! Paris?
What dost thou mean?
No, so God help me, they spake not a word;
I prattle out of fashion, and I dote
Will show you his estate.
Even of your mettle, of your very blood;
He'll spare none.
Like perspectives, which rightly gazed upon
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms:
Possess'd with such a gentle sovereign grace,
now; if it be not now, yet it will come: the
SCENE I. Rome. Before a gate of the city.
now, to mock your own grinning? quite chap-fallen?
Then learn to know him now; this is the duke.
No, girl, I'll knit it up in silken strings
As if our hands, our sides, voices and minds,
'Twill bring you gain, or perish on the seas.
Knocking within
The Dauphin rages at our very heels.
Of heady murder, spoil and villany.
I think he thinks upon the savage bull.
Says suum, mun, ha, no, nonny.
To lie close by his honest bones: but now
SCENE III. Juliet's chamber.
Or is it fantasy that plays upon our eyesight?
Must not so stale his palm, nobly acquired;
Welcome, my gracious lord; welcome, dread queen;
Enter VOLUMNIA, VIRGILIA, and VALERIA
By my life,
A prince of Macedon, my royal father;
I after him do after him wish too,
So that you had her wrinkles and I her money,
And then I'll speak a little.
For we have nothing else to ask, but that
Whom the king hath in secrecy long married,
By holy Laurence to fall prostrate here,
Which some call nature's bastards: of that kind
To welcome him! much more, and much more cause,
Of all encertainties himself commended,
Civility not seen from other, valour
Duke of Alencon, this was your default,
He will not say so.
Will you be married, motley?
When he bestrides the lazy-pacing clouds
Which was to please. Now I want
Come, sirs.
Your royal fleet far off.
Supper is done, and we shall come too late.
Right, if doing nothing be death by the law.
well-behaved reproof to all uncomeliness, that I
I melancholy! I am not melancholy. Get you home, go.
Where I have learn'd me to repent the sin
Of those that lawless and incertain thought
favour with my lady about a bear-baiting here.
Of this his nephew's purpose,--to suppress
Not portable, lie under this report:
him, to be truly touched with love: if he be sad,
Indeed, sir, she was the sweet marjoram of the
knave's pate.
If any spark of life be yet remaining,
Enter MARIA
To make the coming hour o'erflow with joy
My lord, his majesty commended him to you by young
What were you talking of when I came? Was Hector
This letter he early bid me give his father,
Of my boy's face, methoughts I did recoil
hip to hip.
I have not breathed almost since I did see it.
COUNTESS
Bid him prepare; for I will cut his throat.
I have been worth the whistle.
way.
Be free and healthful,--so tart a favour
The powers, delaying, not forgetting, have
Bassanio told him he would make some speed
tender air; and when from a stately cedar shall be
There is the man of my soul's hate, Aufidius,
And consequently, like a traitor coward,
But worn a bait for ladies.
Thou on him leaning, and all Troy on thee,
That their discharge did stretch his leathern coat
What warlike noise is this?
You have paid home: but that you have vouchsafed,
The regent hath with Talbot broke his word
Exit. Alarums
Where never man's eye may behold my body:
Imperious and impatient of your wrongs,
would preferment drop on my head. I brought the old
ANTIPHOLUS
people against the senators, patricians, and nobles.
Speak on, sir;
valiant Ajax to invite the most valorous Hector
Give me some present counsel, or, behold,
Yet, for necessity of present life,
To quench mine honour: they would shame to make me
The princess comes to hunt here in the park,
And go we, brothers, to the man that took him,
is, sure, possessed, madam.
Which now the loving haste of these our friends,
Speak unto Talbot; nay, look up to him.
And as for Clarence, as my letters tell me,
Yet, for a greater confirmation,
Pompey the Huge!
Denied me to come in--return, and force
Intend here to besiege you in your castle:
Without the assistance of a mortal hand:
I should think my honesty ranker than my wit.
Come, how wouldst thou praise me?
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Means he not us? I partly know him: 'tis
know no wise remedy how to avoid it.
Here is Lord Angelo shall give you justice:
By heavens, the duke shall know how slack thou art!
What, ho, the emperor's guard! The guard, what, ho!
Bequeathed down from many ancestors;
I promised we would be contributors
Your valour puts well forth: pray, follow.
That the proportion both of thanks and payment
O Scotland, Scotland!
And whispers in mine ear, 'Go not till he speak.'
I have been seeking you this hour, my lord:
great presage of cruelty.
Hic steterat Priami regia celsa senis.'
Mort du vinaigre! is not this Helen?
And here an engine fit for my proceeding.
For that's the utmost of his pilgrimage.
With half that wish the wisher's eyes be press'd!
And revel in Lavinia's treasury.
Where is our uncle? what's the matter, Suffolk?
O most delicate fiend!
To leave this keen encounter of our wits,
Alas! good Kate, I will not burden thee;
Earl of Northumberland, he slew thy father.
For insurrection's arguing.
tree, understand a plain man in his plain meaning:
They are up already, and call for eggs and butter;
We are, my lord; and come to have the warrant
I do adore thy sweet grace's slipper.
I understand you, sir; 'tis well begged.
is more than the salt; the hair that covers the wit
John, for your diet and by-drinkings, and money lent
Wherein you would have sold your king to slaughter,
After some time, to abuse Othello's ear
He made a blushing cital of himself;
pausing
To a prepared place in the choir, fell off
See you the fornicatress be removed:
And let us, Polydore, though now our voices
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
My lord, I cannot be so soon provided:
Before the birds have any cause to sing?
Love's counsellor should fill the bores of hearing,
the tune of 'Green Sleeves.' What tempest, I trow,
Yoke-fellow to his honour-owing wounds,
Alarum. Enter BRUTUS and MESSALA
Give me my fan: what, minion! can ye not?
Made me put this main secret in the packet
Baccare! you are marvellous forward.
Too nice, and yet too true!
If he for gold will give us any food:
Thou hast done well, fine Ariel!
Enter PORTIA
who know it; I will confess it to all the 'orld: I
merriest was put down, and the worser allowed by
The best-regarded virgins of our clime
For now hath time made me his numbering clock:
Why, boy, although our mother, unadvised,
Pompey: you will turn good husband now, Pompey; you
How blest am I
meant, indeed, to occupy the argument no longer.
Which is not owed to you!
Give me your hand:
Would tempt unto a close exploit of death?
Ah, what a shame were this! Look on the boy;
I am robbed, sir, and beaten; my money and apparel
That heaven finds means to kill your joys with love.
Villain, thou liest; for even her very words
Upon this blasted heath you stop our way
Let me be Duke of Clarence, George of Gloucester;
But, sir, such wanton, wild and usual slips
Or shall we on, and not depend on you?
I do not greatly care to be deceived,
thief; for the poor abuses of the time want
Here is some gold for thee.
Yet go we under our opinion still
halfpenny loaves sold for a penny: the three-hooped
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more:
The hand could pluck her back that shoved her on.
And long hereafter say unto his child,
And blindfold death not let me see my son.
The gods can have no mortal officer
The Great.
I know no touch of consanguinity;
eyes; and then they will endure handling, which
Indeed, I am no mourner for that news,
Stop there; I'll have her: she was mine, and not
No more than when my daughters call thee mother.
If the king come, I shall incur I know not
For my heart speaks they are welcome.
And yet a dispensation may be had.
condition, but therewithal the unruly waywardness
Here they rob them and bind them. Exeunt
Let him receive no sustenance, fetter him
Hap what hap may, I'll roundly go about her:
No, that's certain; I am not a double man: but if I
Here could I breathe my soul into the air,
Why ask you this?
Perchance light in the light. I desire her name.
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard,
Of tyranny and will ignoble make you,
Who, as we hear, are busily in arms:
You sent me for a rope's end as soon:
Which seems a little fouler than it is,
Enter COUNTESS, Steward, and Clown
A babe is moulded. Be attent,
[Aside to GLOUCESTER]  He is the bluntest wooer in
Look to your babe, my lord; 'tis yours:
Am I or that or this for what he'll utter,
The king enacts more wonders than a man,
He did not call; he's busy in the paper.
in valour, in every thing illegitimate. One bear will
led my ragamuffins where they are peppered: there's
To VINCENTIO
What pleasure, sir, find we in life, to lock it
Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes
I can with ease produce.
Nor wit nor reason can my passion hide.
And would by combat make her good, so were I
May your grace speak of it?
And living too; for now his son is duke.
one she loves.
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
He shortens four years of my son's exile:
Unreverent Gloster!
While she chats him: the kitchen malkin pins
Is't not your trick?
And food for--
Strike the proud cedars 'gainst the fiery sun;
Then, York, unloose thy long-imprison'd thoughts,
Methinks I could
Say you so? come on.
O heavens, that they were living both in Naples,
Would make the great'st king double,--to be partner'd
Is wasteful and ridiculous excess.
And you of her, the bloody book of law
As he will have me, how am I so poor?
'Tis strange.
But let desert in pure election shine,
So might your grace's person be in danger.
Put on the gown, stand naked and entreat them,
Shall these enjoy our lands?  lie with our wives?
To have his title live in Aquitaine;
Shuts up his windows, locks far daylight out
Yet I wish, sir,--
Then but forbear your food a little while,
In faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword.
He was convey'd by Richard Duke of Gloucester
Worthy Cominius, speak.
How now, Cassio!
My mother told me just how he would woo,
Nor to one place; nor is my whole estate
Enter CAPULET in his gown, and LADY CAPULET
Exeunt
Say I am dancing; if in mirth, report
What monster's her accuser? Leonatus,
O my poor brother! and so perchance may he be.
While Philip breathes.
Thy slander hath gone through and through her heart,
Has he disciplined Aufidius soundly?
By God, thou hast deceived me, Lancaster;
face again: but those that understood him smiled at
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death,
Throwing down SOMERSET's head
Did I go through a tempest dropping fire.
O, how this mother swells up toward my heart!
pyramises are very goodly things; without
them and foot them too. A plague of all cowards!
Of ever angry bears: it was a torment
Than secret Romans, that have spoke the word,
O God of battles! steel my soldiers' hearts;
He's a god or a painter; for he makes faces.
The point!--envenom'd too!
I would have put my wealth into donation,
My friends,--
Enter KENT, disguised
my errand;
Let me embrace with old Vincentio,
a beggar: Cressida was a beggar. My lady is
in all my life.
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' the air to stick:
Than the rebuke you give it.
mines? have the pioneers given o'er?
And cabin in a cave, and bring you up
How canst thou try them so?
Long live King Henry! Plantagenet embrace him.
it: but, first, how the poor souls roared, and the
Then I know thee not:
Wrath makes him deaf: speak thou, Northumberland.
Heaven stops the nose at it and the moon winks,
Here once again we sit, once again crown'd,
And patient underbearing of his fortune,
with a shame as ample.
By the Lord, thou sayest true, lad. And is not my
Myself the while to draw the Moor apart,
Is not the causer of the timeless deaths
Shall we go, coz?
This brave shall oft make thee to hide thy head.
But what prevention?
Come, Hastings, help me to my closet.
They'll be in fresher robes, or they will pluck
Octavia to his wife; whose beauty claims
Strike all that look upon with marvel. Come,
By giving it the worship of revenge.
And with all speed post with him toward the north,
Why, that's well said. Go, get you to my house;
Stand, ho!
The odds for high and low's alike.
action outdone his former deeds doubly
Madam, we are here.
Instead whereof let this supply the room:
Wishes and tears, poor fancy's followers.
With caution that the Florentine will move us
Since, of ourselves, ourselves are choleric,
Ere the first sacrifice, within this hour,
Plainly conceive, I love you.
He's both their parent, and he is their grave,
Proud and ambitious tribune, canst thou tell?
bridge most valiantly, with excellent discipline.
Will have his will, and she must fall.
Sir Hugh is there, is he?
Enter KING PHILIP, LEWIS, CARDINAL PANDULPH, and Attendants
Whiles thus you mock it! how, in stripping it,
Lady, will you walk about with your friend?
be a sinner, honest water, which ne'er left man i' the mire:
Nor get a messenger to bring it thee,
Rising
And therefore has he closely mew'd her up,
I should have been more strange, I must confess,
Away with him! and do as I command ye.
Tell me, thou unknown power,--
To trouble and disturb the king and us?
in place where, thou shouldst know it.
Respect to your great place! and let the devil
O, throw away the worser part of it,
Had he been slaughter-man to all my kin,
That, sure, they've worn out Christendom.
man, though he do nothing but reprove.
To tell them that this world did equal theirs
If I were not in love with Mopsa, thou shouldst take
And here she stands, touch her whoever dare;
That I would set my lie on any chance,
this other day, what should follow these eclipses.
As air, as water, wind, or sandy earth,
Till you hear further from his highness.
And of our Athens, thine and ours, to take
of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over his hen,
alehouse of my lady's house, that ye squeak out your
I must go in. Ay me, how weak a thing
Why such unplausive eyes are bent on him:
No doubt, no doubt; and so shall Clarence too;
The clownish fool out of your father's court?
mastiffs in robustious and rough coming on, leaving
The note lies in's throat, if he say I said so.
And thus I search it with a sovereign kiss.
We'll make an instrument of this, omit
As twenty seas, if all their sand were pearl,
child! look thee here; take up, take up, boy;
I would have stay'd till I had made you merry,
O, if thou be'st the same AEgeon, speak,
Nor was not to be equall'd;'--thus your verse
Exeunt
As will disperse itself through all the veins
With slow but stately pace kept on his course,
As who should say 'I am Sir Oracle,
I will confirm with oath; which, I doubt not,
wind were down, I could drive the boat with my sighs.
gallant service.
And down, down, adown-a,  and c.
Is it even so? rewards he my true service
Enter GLOUCESTER and his Servingmen, in mourning cloaks
putting-on; methinks strangely, for he hath not used it before.
O calm, dishonourable, vile submission!
Enter another Messenger
My purpose is, indeed, a horse of that colour.
I would set down and insert in't, could you not?
That we'll forsake ourselves. Give me that ring.
Of capital treason we arrest you here.
take him to be a thief too, sir; for we have found
married to-morrow:
But, with a proud majestical high scorn,
To watch the coming of my punish'd duchess:
Here comes Thersites.
We see each grain of gravel, I do know
Away, and mock the time with fairest show:
And hang himself. I pray you, do my greeting.
My nobles leave me; and my state is braved,
O, pardon; I offend.
waiting-gentlewoman in the 'scape. This has been
Where, where? Art thou come? why, my cheese, my
Is execution done on Cawdor? Are not
Wherein the acorn cradled. Follow.
[Aside to SEBASTIAN]  I am right glad that he's so
ROSALIND swoons
Obey it on all cause.
That, when I note another man like him,
O detestable villain! call'st thou that trimming?
Then shall we hear their 'larum, and they ours.
Are turned to one thread, one little hair:
Nay, then, 'tis time to stir him from his trance.
Ha! ha! Alas, poor wretch! ah, poor capocchia!
A calendar, a calendar! look in the almanac; find
give enlargement to the swain, bring him festinately
Scoffing his state and grinning at his pomp,
As well we may, if not through your neglect,
'No man must know.' What follows? the numbers
Softly and swiftly, sir; for the priest is ready.
hath slandered, scorned, dishonoured my kinswoman? O
I cannot tell vat is dat: but it is tell-a me dat
good troth,
Drawn on with torture.
He dies that strikes again. What is the matter?
For, by the image of my cause, I see
Perform 't, or else we damn thee.'
Abhorr'd your person.
Body o' me, where is it?
Unto the crown of France. That you may know
Enter ANTONIO
Whose star-like nobleness gave life and influence
As wild Medea young Absyrtus did:
You do look, my son, in a moved sort,
By longing for that food so long a time.
Nay, patience, or we break the sinews of our plot.
Whom you yourselves shall set out for reproof
your offices?
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet:
What's mine is yours and what is yours is mine.
They needs must show themselves; which
More sacks to the mill! O heavens, I have my wish!
How! Julia!
Of sulphurous roaring the most mighty Neptune
Where is Lysander and fair Hermia?
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
better man than thee.
Uncle of Winchester, I pray, read on.
How modest in exception, and withal
This other Eden, demi-paradise,
Enter a Gardener, and two Servants
A guide, a goddess, and a sovereign,
Enter SEBASTIAN
So kind to heart, 'tis not enough to give;
thou couldst, thou wouldst find me such a plain king
And though he were unsatisfied in getting,
Could deem his dignity?
Apollo, perfect me in the characters!
Dear my lord, if you, in your own proof,
I see thou art not for my company.
As I do think, to-morrow.
brother's evil disposition made him seek his death;
The cause of our expedience to the queen,
For thou hast made the happy earth thy hell,
O Ratcliff, I fear, I fear,--
He'll so awake as she in fury shall
My head should be struck off.
Good gentle youth, tempt not a desperate man;
That villain cousin would have kill'd my husband:
Ay, if you thought your love not cast away.
Has cluck'd thee to the wars and safely home,
Is my report to his great worthiness.
Enter LADY CAPULET and Nurse
He is composed and framed of treachery:
Thou show'dst a subject's shine, I a true prince.
Thy crystal window ope; look out;
Be cross with him; and I'll go fetch thy sons
So pale did shine the moon on Pyramus
Hast thou or word, or wit, or impudence,
into a yoke, wear the print of it and sigh away
How could you give it him?
Let's march without the noise of threatening drum,
The honour that he loses: more I'll entreat you
Why, that were covetousness.
Be quite degraded, like a hedge-born swain
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the
Then call our captains and our colours forth.
runs down a hill, lest it break thy neck with
A better head her glorious body fits
a heavy case, your purse in a light; yet you see how
Must your bold verdict enter talk with lords?'
From her material sap, perforce must wither
And only stays but to behold the face
You wrong me more, sir, in denying it:
From me receive that natural competency
And through Wall's chink, poor souls, they are content
And a thousand vagram posies.
For your fair safety; so, I kiss your hand.
Lucentio, you shall supply the bridegroom's place:
They cry 'Choose we: Laertes shall be king:'
The one is Caius Lucius.
A sin prevailing much in youthful men,
You say, you'll marry me, if I be willing?
hangman; for I know thou worshippest St. Nicholas
Out, out, Lucetta! that would be ill-favour'd.
Well,
Clifford, I say, come forth and fight with me:
virgin crimson of modesty, if she deny the
Is powerful to araise King Pepin, nay,
Hisperia, the princess' gentlewoman,
Thou art a widow; yet thou art a mother,
Exeunt KING OF FRANCE and CORDELIA
Take that, thou likeness of this railer here.
go to the ale with a Christian. Wilt thou go?
Most abject in regard and dear in use!
in faith, honest as the skin between his brows.
[Aside]  Now Winchester will not submit, I trow,
He hath no eyes, the dust hath blinded them.
in's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes,
Which spongy April at thy hest betrims,
You, gracious couple, do: and then I lost--
Not well disposed, the mind growing once corrupt,
Now, if you are a maid, answer to this.
Therefore away, to get our stuff aboard.
What harm a wind too great at sea might do.
Will render you no remedy, this ring
What did the Russian whisper in your ear?
O, sir, are you come?
Have you forgot the Duke of Hereford, boy?
Hath drawn him from his own determined aid,
Avaunt, thou damned door-keeper!
devil guide his cudgel afterwards!
I would I had your bond, for I perceive
To every purpose! O thou touch of hearts!
Mistress, how mean you that?
And more above, hath his solicitings,
Gentle Octavia,
And left me in reputeless banishment,
Would he were here! to all, and him, we thirst,
God save the king! God save the king!
O'er France and all her almost kingly dukedoms,
The drum your honour hears marcheth from Warwick.
While he, renowned noble gentleman,
And surer bind this knot of amity,
And each man have enough. Dost thou know Dover?
Of Sicily, Sardinia; and I must
If England to itself do rest but true.
Now will he be swinged for reading my letter; an
This tongue hath parley'd unto foreign kings
As thou wilt win my favour, good my knave,
won the bridge, killing all those that withstand
A thousand blushing apparitions
Re-enter CRESSIDA
soul, i' faith, sir; by my troth he is, as ever
Your serpent of Egypt is bred now of your mud by the
I'll save you
Enter YORK, and his army of Irish, with drum and colours
better in your wits than a fool.
So please your grace, my ancient;
That time of both this truth shall ne'er convince,
Exeunt
sign of dolour to another, she did, with an 'Alas,'
of courtesy; and tell me flatly I am no proud Jack,
That will allow me very worth his service.
Exeunt some Attendants
I have seen the dumb men throng to see him and
Welcome, lady.
Look on my forces with a gracious eye;
O then, belike, you fancy riches more:
And me, my lord, grant me the combat too.
With patience, noble lord, as prisoners must:
Pointing on him.
the tinker! Starveling! God's my life, stolen
Put bars between the owners and their rights!
I pray you, be acquainted with this maid;
O, how we joy to see your wit restored!
Retreat. Flourish. Enter, with drum and colours, MALCOLM, SIWARD, ROSS, the other Thanes, and Soldiers
Advancing
He made her melancholy, sad, and heavy;
Do I curse thee?
And they shall be immediately deliver'd.
I humbly thank his grace; and from these shoulders,
As firm as faith.
Which well I am assured I have not done,
He is welcome hither.
And take perforce my husband from the abbess.
Are we turn'd Turks, and to ourselves do that
Exit
And I for no woman.
We all have strongly sworn to give him aid;
No, it is 'lapis:' I pray you, remember in your prain.
and children are even now to be afresh lamented.
Hold, Clifford! do not honour him so much
Had been a little ratsbane for thy sake!
Hark!
Return them, we are ready; and our daughter,
Blotting your names from books of memory,
Consuming it with speaking!
Been sworn my soldier, bidding me depend
And weigh thee down to ruin, shame, and death!
the letter: she sends him on purpose, that I may
And in my temper soften'd valour's steel!
Not resolute, except so much were done;
With truth and plainness I do wear mine bare.
That cannot so much as a blossom yield
This is all:
COUNTESS
Some necessaries that I needs must use,
Nell, sir; but her name and three quarters, that's
And kept low shrubs from winter's powerful wind.
Return'd my letter back. Then all alone
As he had lost some province and a region
Why had I not with charitable hand
And speak't again, my lord; no more with me.
SCENE III. Wales. Before Flint castle.
Windy attorneys to their client woes,
themselves. O thou great thunder-darter of Olympus,
But, as it were, an after-dinner's sleep,
Unless his noble mother, and his wife;
Pays this for Marcus Crassus.
Dieu de batailles! where have they this mettle?
Since you provoke me, shall be most notorious.
conclusion. For thy part, Claudio, I did think to
Your mind from feasting. Sooth, when I was young
That befal preposterously.
Had I not reason, think ye, to make haste,
Is straightway calm'd and boarded with a pirate:
best sheep, which I fear the wolf will sooner find
Achilles hath inveigled his fool from him.
Can he not be sociable?
Not as you served the cause, but as 't had been
[Aside]  Though I am not naturally honest, I am so
country. 'Steal by line and level' is an excellent
Upon a parchment, and against this fire
Into an auger's bore.
'Tis he.
Who's that?
What's in his heart; and that is there which looks
here's fine revolution, an we had the trick to
An elder than herself: so wears she to him,
Indeed I would be consul.
swimmer, Troilus the first employer of panders, and
Therefore, to speak, and to avoid the first,
Enter MARK ANTONY and CANIDIUS
With his unkindness? say't be so?
And buzz lamenting doings in the air!
But suck them up to the topmast. A kind of conquest
What a taking was he in when your husband asked who
and in such great letters as they write 'Here is
Not one amongst us, save yourself, but says
cried 'budget,' as Anne and I had appointed; and yet
Why, courage then! what cannot be avoided
And he hath sent for thee: for the queen,
I slew thy father, call'st thou him a child?
For the love of all the gods,
Thy sumptuous buildings and thy wife's attire
We do request your kindest ears, and after,
his poll-axe sitting on a close-stool, will be given
For ever by your grace, whose hand has raised me.
'Tis not his new-made bride shall succor him:
Ha!
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
As if he had but proved an argument.
Her presence would have interrupted much:
And answer, thanks: I duly am inform'd
By making many. O, it grieves my soul,
As is the osprey to the fish, who takes it
Shamed their aspect with store of childish drops:
Alas, thou hast misconstrued every thing!
If ever I did dream of such a matter, Abhor me.
pour tout le monde. Foh! le foot et le coun!
Art thou a man? thy form cries out thou art:
And fly with me to Cressid!
Are nursed by baseness. Thou'rt by no means valiant;
And how the English have the suburbs won.
Of these thy compounds on such creatures as
Good morrow, friends. Saint Valentine is past:
Our certain death: therefore it is decreed
Pierced through the heart with your stern cruelty:
I know 'twill stir him strongly; yet I know
Supply me with the habit and instruct me
Than she a woman: 'tis such fools as you
why, it is a fairer name than French crown. I will
I would say the truth; but to accuse him so,
Your wisdom in the deed.
In following him, I follow but myself;
Does pay thy labour richly; go.
Is the sun dimm'd, that gnats do fly in it?
Nor the furious winter's rages;
What is he for a fool that betroths himself to
It is not likely
I dare not say he lies any where.
So I, being young, till now ripe not to reason;
And she did gratify his amorous works
And more than carefully it us concerns
Enter our gates; dispose of us and ours;
Capitol; Brutus killed me.
At thy great glory. Look not to the ground,
How possibly preserved; and who to thank,
Royal commanders, be in readiness:
A quiet night; and my good mistress will
The devil will shake her chain and fright us with it.
Who told me, in the narrow seas that part
The Tower, the Tower.
Than the death-darting eye of cockatrice:
To Pericles thy father.
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Here in this country, where we now remain.
For, by these blessed candles of the night,
Then, Aaron, arm thy heart, and fit thy thoughts,
Than to take in a town with gentle words,
Here comes your cousin.
And what should I do in Illyria?
And would have kept so long as breath did last!
Have satisfied the king for his divorce,
To winter-ground thy corse.
For I myself have many tears to wash
and wine and metheglins, and to drinkings and
My gracious sovereign, now in Devonshire,
Now he importunes him
All these could not procure me any scathe,
Is Clarence, Henry, and his son young Edward,
Caesar and Antony shall well greet together:
Men, more divine, the masters of all these,
Now is it Rome indeed and room enough,
Be shook to air.
laboured for the poor gentleman to the extremest
And call him 'madam,' do him obeisance.
Nay, 'tis too true; therefore he shall be king.
towards my wife, I would turn her loose to him; and
While other men, of slender reputation,
With mine own breath release all duty's rites:
Fann'd with the eastern wind, turns to a crow
I am amazed, and know not what to say.
Where did you dwell when I was King of England?
With them they think on? Things without all remedy
the duke's name; his wife, Baptista: you shall see
son, my son! Tell me, thou villain, where is my son Lucentio?
And as mine eye doth his effigies witness
all our misery.
Exeunt Murderers
That with your other noble parts you'll suit
As you do love your lady Silvia:
So to be valiant is no praise at all.
with idleness, or manured with industry, why, the
As it hath used to do, that I have found
But whether they be ta'en or slain we hear not.
Then she puts you to entreaty, and there begins new matter.
No bed shall e'er be guilty of my stay,
Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
Of what lies heavy to't.
A double blessing is a double grace,
Exeunt all except PRINCE HENRY and PETO
ACT III
Was my great father-in-law, renowned Warwick;
A false conclusion: I hate it as an unfilled can.
Sir, my lord,
I would, that I might thank you as you call me.
Prophetically doth forethink thy fall.
Is't real that I see?
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
supply; who, having great and instant occasion to
and blue list; an old hat and 'the humour of forty
Who is't that calls? is it my lady mother?
and dare not task my weakness with any more.
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Ay, sir.
My prayers to heaven for you, my loyalty,
As if you were a god to punish, not
Indeed he is not fit.
This will I also wear in my cap: if ever thou come
Good fortune, worthy soldier; and farewell.
Peace, sister, peace!
And yet I do thee wrong to mind thee of it,
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and ALEXAS
Did I impale him with the regal crown?
I thus would play and trifle with your reverence:
disasters the sun, the moon, and the stars: as
Here, Fluellen; wear thou this favour for me and
Who seeks, and will not take when once 'tis offer'd,
It cannot be; for when I parted with him,
Which then will speak, that you must
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
ignorant, call I the deer the princess killed a pricket.
I denied you not.
SCENE III. The field of battle.
And what we do establish he confirms:
This man hath my consent to marry her.
Re-enter POLONIUS, with VOLTIMAND and CORNELIUS
desire more?
Hear, nature, hear; dear goddess, hear!
if you do stir abroad, go armed.
To Marcius shall be honours, though indeed
Towards our assistance we do seize to us
be once heard and thrice beaten. God save you, captain.
O sun, thy uprise shall I see no more:
But tie him not to be their bedfellow.
You shall hear. As good luck would have it, comes
You charge me most unjustly.
Which, as I take't, we shall; for his best force
Heaven would that she these gifts should have,
DON
There, Coriolanus.
Fertile the isle, the temple much surpassing
What's he that knocks as he would beat down the gate?
Perform'd to point the tempest that I bade thee?
more delicate way than drowning. Make all the money
'Faith, there's no way to be rid on't but by the
Rowland de Boys; he was my father, and he is thrice
the truth of his words; but they do no more adhere
My fortunes--parentage--good parentage--
A pack of blessings lights up upon thy back;
That grudge one thought against your majesty!
His knights grow riotous, and himself upbraids us
There's other work in hand: I see a thing
shall have good trading that way. But tell me, Hal,
And Brutus Antony, there were an Antony
Then you must say 'I take thee, Rosalind, for wife.'
O England! model to thy inward greatness,
My lord the emperor, resolve me this:
Left I his title out.
No, no, my sovereign; Gloucester is a man
Note it not you, Thaisa?
take cold. Holla, ho! Curtis.
On like conditions, will have counter-seal'd.
And say 'These wounds I had on Crispin's day.'
Rather our state's defective for requital
and a cold capon's leg?
'twere,--I cannot tell how. But, my lord, his
Behind the ditches of the abbey here.
Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs:
And show fair duty to his majesty.
No more, cousin.
That walked about me every minute-while;
Against the Roman state, whose course will on
Whom have we here? Buckingham, to disturb me?
Where most she satisfies; for vilest things
Well, I must do't:
And every one doth call me by my name.
But I will use the axe.
an erring barbarian and a supersubtle Venetian not
That would I, had I kingdoms to give with her.
By what did here befal me. Your wife and brother
love from any: in this, though I cannot be said to
Is guilty of this fault and not my son.
Of her society
When shalt thou see thy wholesome days again,
Matter against me; and his eye reviled
So cunning and so young is wonderful.
Where is my mother! why, she is within;
on his head, bearing a long white wand, as
By this unheedful, desperate, wild adventure:
these strip you out of your lieutenantry, it had
When weeping made you break the story off,
I am glad he went not in himself: if he had found
But there's more in me than thou understand'st.
By my troth, I speak my thought.
Gentle madam, no.
Could my good brother suffer you to do it?
My Lord of Westmoreland, lead him to his tent.
knock, knock! Who's there? Faith, here's an
Than in the glass of Pandar's praise may be;
Who, in my mood, I stabb'd unto the heart.
Exit
The neighs of horse to tell of her approach
A stranger, no offender; and inform him
Achieved her mistress.
A man, sir.
widow weeps.
The violent fit o' the time craves it as physic
On this side Tiber; he hath left them you,
Where man doth not inhabit; you 'mongst men
Their going hence, even as their coming hither;
SCENE VI. Wales. Before the cave of Belarius.
Fit in his place and time.
I have operations which be humours of revenge.
'Tis good. Go to the gate; somebody knocks.
Should be! should--buzz!
Nay, let it rest where it began at first.
When she shall hear this of thee, with her nails
And creep into it far before thy time?
been wise.
To loathe the taste of sweetness, whereof a little
But love, fair looks and true obedience;
Is't possible, my lord?
A bachelor, a handsome stripling too:
Love make his heart of flint that you shall love;
Thou art not ignorant what dear good will
Exeunt
Hold thee, there's my purse: I give thee not this
married man, he's his wife's head, and I can never
I thought had been my lord.
Into the air; and what seem'd corporal melted
SCENE V. The Grecian camp. Lists set out.
Or rudely visit them in parts remote,
him.
on a brick wall have I climbed into this garden, to
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
speak not this that you should bear a good opinion
Then whither he goes, thither let me go.
To sue his livery and beg his peace,
[Advancing]  Dumain, thy love is far from charity.
fellow met me on the way and told me I had unloaded
If thou darest bring them to the baiting place.
Well may we fight for her whom, we know well,
Her face was to mine eye beyond all wonder;
To heaven.
Destroy'd his country, and his name remains
Most welcome, bondage! for thou art away,
She took the ring of me: I'll none of it.
Exit
I' the city of kites and crows! What an ass it is!
This forwardness
We talk here in the public haunt of men:
To disproportion me in every part,
prove it so.
Ah, good Demetrius, wilt thou give him me?
Besides--I ha' not since put up my sword--
What shall I do? There is a gentleman my dear
Better it is to die, better to starve,
For brave Macbeth--well he deserves that name--
Or, naked as I am, I will assault thee.
You had rather be at a breakfast of enemies than a
Never till this day
At Antium lives he?
And here, I take it, is the doctor come.
The gods preserve ye!
Then he was urged to tell my tale again,
What countryman, I pray?
Chickens, the way which they stoop'd eagles; slaves,
Upon this hope, that you shall give me reasons
O heavy times, begetting such events!
drink it? wherein neat and cleanly, but to carve a
I'll give you boot, I'll give you three for one.
Than thou hast spoken words?
Things known betwixt us three, I'll write you down:
Ne'er see thou man, and let me ne'er see thee.
your enemy; she is not worth our debate: if she
Exeunt ROSENCRANTZ, GUILDENSTERN, and some Attendants
such shallow follies in others, become the argument
What, is my daughter gone to Friar Laurence?
For I can guess that by thy honest aid
And call in question our necessities.
Not for delights; times to repair our nature
You rogue, they were bound, every man of them; or I
Ere twice the sun hath made his journal greeting
And then to Brittany I'll cross the sea,
We did not quote them so.
I am in your debt for your last exercise;
Petition us at home: Sextus Pompeius
We'll sift this matter further.
You have, I know, petition'd all the gods
To leave you in your madness, 'twere my sin:
Now, princes, for the service I have done you,
There's few or none do know me: if they did,
That they have done't?
To that destruction which I'll guard them from,
I talk not of your soul: our compell'd sins
Alack, what trouble
Methinks these peers of France should smile at that.
The washing of ten tides!
Comes armed through our watch; so like the king
Sharp-tooth'd unkindness, like a vulture, here:
Will not have earth to know.
I am not yet instructed.
This is stiff news--hath, with his Parthian force,
I'll fight at sea.
better assurance, tell them that I, Pyramus, am not
the line: now, jerkin, you are like to lose your
Out of my sight, and never see me more!
Provokes this deluge most unnatural.
Name not religion, for thou lovest the flesh,
[Aside]	How should this be?
Do not believe it.
Who, ring'd about with bold adversity,
And so, farewell, for I must hence again.
The state takes notice of the private difference
Live here in heaven and may look on her;
And reason panders will.
Sweet rest his soul! Fly, lords, and save yourselves;
All torment, trouble, wonder and amazement
Come away.
which you have not; but I pardon you for that, for
Our sport shall be to take what they mistake:
What, art mad? A man may see how this world goes
To those whose dealings have deserved the place,
murderer. He does obey every point of the letter
Than dogs that are as often beat for barking
Thou hast. Where was she born? speak; tell me.
calls not on me? Well, 'tis no matter; honour pricks
And bound them.
Pardon, my lord.
And cheer his grace with quick and merry words.
[Aside]  Villain and he be many miles asunder.--
O, out of that 'no hope'
Dealt on lieutenantry, and no practise had
To find this practise out.
a carpenter?'
Her ashes new create another heir,
SCENE VII. Florence. The Widow's house.
They cannot be too sweet for the king's tartness.
In a disguise of love:
From his true-meant design. Upon his place,
as you are. Would we could see you at Corinth!
The more my prayer, the lesser is my grace.
Words, vows, gifts, tears, and love's full sacrifice,
No, faith, hate him not, for my sake.
Then slip I from her bum, down topples she,
this is the time that the unjust man doth thrive.
being here and hath threatened to put me into
And I, my lord.
breach; and we talk, and, be Chrish, do nothing:
To keep in darkness what occasion now
I bring a trumpet to awake his ear,
'Say, the firm Roman to great Egypt sends
He offers in another's enterprise;
In faith, it is exceedingly well aim'd.
He had of me a chain: at five o'clock
To Lynn, my lord,
All the fool mine?
I would that I were low laid in my grave:
So keen and greedy to confound a man:
What shall I do? say what; what shall I do?
Thou darest not, coward, live to see that day.
The French exclaim'd, the devil was in arms;
Pucelle, that witch, that damned sorceress,
Thy gown? why, ay: come, tailor, let us see't.
My dearest coz,
Then westward-ho! Grace and good disposition
To Dorothy my woman hie thee presently--
Oh, Oh, Oh!
And hold our best advantage.
Why answer not the double majesties
would not ha' your distemper in this kind for the
If I might beseech you, gentlemen, to repair some
[Aside]  How like a fawning publican he looks!
Brother, she is not worth what she doth cost
From his allegiance to an heretic;
badness in himself.
O mighty Caesar! dost thou lie so low?
Demetrius, I'll avouch it to his head,
What have I done, that thou darest wag thy tongue
The troop is past. Come, pilgrim, I will bring you
So doubly seconded with will and power,
Enter, on the other side of the field, RICHMOND,  Sir William Brandon, OXFORD, and others. Some of the Soldiers pitch RICHMOND's tent
The handkerchief!
very gallantly maintained the pridge: the French is
Not I, my lord, unless I did bleed too.
Amongst your cloven army.
And not my brother.
The noble duke hath sworn his coming is
Here are the heads of thy two noble sons;
Antonio never yet was thief or pirate,
So let it now; for it has been while going by.
Enter a Messenger
Agree these deeds with that proud brag of thine,
First, for I cannot flatter thee in pride;
Dies
As black and white, my eye will scarcely see it.
I must fetch his necessaries ashore. Farewell.
Enobarbus, welcome!
Leave not the worthy Lucius, good my lords,
They are both in either's powers; but this swift business
I say, by sorcery he got this isle;
Where's Alexas?
Ah, now thou turn'st away thy face for shame!
O, ay, make up that: he is now at a cold scent.
In their nativity all truth appears.
I shall cut out your tongue.
Fatal and ominous to noble peers!
Yet 'tis not madness. Where's Antonio, then?
That you divest yourself, and lay apart
creature of sale.
I will not.
One general tongue unto us, this good man,
And if thou dost not hide thee from the bear,
What's this, Comelius?
Here comes his servant: how now, Catesby,
Here comes my noble gull-catcher.
often burst and now repaired with knots; one girth
That keeps you in the house, and not your own.
A gallant knight he was, his name was Blunt;
Were purchased by the merit of the wearer!
Where having nothing, nothing can he lose.
The hard and soft seem all affined and kin:
They all start
Of whence you are, your name and parentage.
Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Far from his succor, from the king, from all
What had he done, to make him fly the land?
Hark further.
Into your guiding power. This is the man.
Are thou so confident? within what space
To stay the judgment o' the divorce; for if
man in the city; and though I be but a poor man, I
By the Athenian garments he hath on.
This king were great, his greatness was no guard
O, sir, sir, sir,
their thoughts
No less to have done so, let me enfold thee
Exeunt all but APEMANTUS and TIMON
answering: speaking is for beggars; he wears his
Put on a most importunate aspect,
Or dead, or sleeping on him? But dead rather;
Or, if there were a sympathy in choice,
Whew! A plague upon you all! Give me my horse, you
In a wide sea of wax: no levell'd malice
breathes at's nostrils.
Erect his statue and worship it,
Not that we love words better, as you do.
'Tis Cinna; I do know him by his gait;
Will you yet hold? How came my man i' the stocks?
No, this thrice worthy and right valiant lord
Ha! what sayest thou? Why, the end is, he hath
of the prison; give him leave to escape hence, he
By my troth, my lord, I cannot tell what to think
Besides, he tells me that, if peradventure
This ring was ever hers, you shall as easy
But see where Somerset and Clarence come!
Thou hast no husband yet nor I no wife.
Aside
And, must needs say, a noble one; which makes me,
No man so potent breathes upon the ground
I thank him, I bare home upon my shoulders;
He shall have nothing but the penalty.
Into the market-place: there shall I try
For, by this light, whereby I see thy beauty,
Better forbear till Proteus make return.
Ay, on my life; and hopes to find forward
To see me pay his debt, and then I care not!
Flourish. Exeunt
Enter TALBOT, with trump and drum
Exeunt Citizens
shall have tribute of me; the adventurous knight
Soon after that, deprived him of his life;
Tush, I will stir about,
As my soul prompts it. Spirit, fine spirit! I'll free thee
on. She hath made me four and twenty nose-gays for
And pious action we do sugar o'er
my learning.
than hairs, and more wealth than faults.'
I am content to be Lucentio,
Thou hast said well; for some of you there present
On yon young boy: I'll tell thee what, my friend,
a tooth in her head, though she have as many diseases
What a coil's here!
What are they that would speak with me?
No, Bolingbroke: if ever I were traitor,
I'll assure you, a' uttered as brave words at the
your house.' He could be contented: why is he not,
And thy abundant goodness shall excuse
With whose sweet smell the air shall be perfumed;
I will, sir.
Do meet, as at a fair, in her fair cheek,
It is Captain Macmorris, is it not?
I greet your honours from Andronicus.
Of wide Arabia are as thoroughfares now
Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
But, for your conscience?
For he to-day that sheds his blood with me
clown, abandon,--which is in the vulgar leave,--the
'Above my fortunes, yet my state is well:
Fail not to use, and with what vehemency
And Sir John Stanley is appointed now
Why, every fault's condemn'd ere it be done:
'Tis his main hope:
If your more ponderous and settled project
Even there where merchants most do congregate,
What should not then be spared. He is already
Sit then and talk with her; she is thine own.
God speed the parliament! who shall be the speaker?
thou darest tempt me further, draw thy sword.
My tongue shall hush again this storm of war
Wherein have I so deserved of you,
Gives us free scope, only doth backward pull
Come on assay. There's one gone to the harbour?
Though you perceive me not how I give line.
To what, I pray?
He 'scaped the land, to perish at the sea.
Exeunt SHALLOW, SLENDER, PAGE, and Host
And an ill singer, my lord.
Why think you so?
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice;
Mistress Ford; come, Mistress Ford,--
That might have known my place: I see no sense for't,
wilt prove a notable argument.
with you, drink with you, nor pray with you. What
Our king has all the Indies in his arms,
I smell it: upon my life, it will do well.
lie,
If this were played upon a stage now, I could
My train are men of choice and rarest parts,
Will not confess he owes the malady
And our return, to excuse: but first, how get hence:
Call Edward king and at his hands beg mercy?
You'll ask me, why I rather choose to have
Scars to move laughter only.
my table so many meals? Come, what's Agamemnon?
Long mayst thou live in Richard's seat to sit,
saving faith within me tells me thou shalt, I get
And what say you to this? Percy, Northumberland,
And watch your safety.
And, in my company, my brother Gloucester;
Thunder and lightning. Enter ARIEL, like a  harpy; claps his wings upon the table; and, with a quaint device, the banquet vanishes
sack as I to-day? Wilt thou tell a monstrous lie,
good compass: and now I live out of all order, out
Yet in this one thing let me blame your grace,
The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices
It is the issue of Polixenes:
Which often, since my here-remain in England,
question of the play be then to be considered:
His statutes cancell'd and his treasure spent;
Enter CASSANDRA
That most pure spirit of sense, behold itself,
I might ask you for your commission; but I do take
To ransack Troy, within whose strong immures
No marrying 'mong his subjects?
fools are as like husbands as pilchards are to
Why, this is a passing merry one and goes to
He it is that hath
And think, perchance, they'll sell; if not,
Unless thou wert more loyal than thou art:
It is the pasture lards the rother's sides,
She never knew harm-doing: O, now, after
Hate counsels not in such a quality.
Abase foul stone, made precious by the foil
Which casket 'twas I chose; next, if I fail
Thou cunning'st pattern of excelling nature,
there a wise woman with thee?
If Salisbury wants mercy at thy hands!
What dost thou, or what art thou, Angelo?
Enter EDGAR
Enter LADY MACBETH
So say I	amen.
I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter!
A stage where every man must play a part,
A station like the herald Mercury
Unlawfully made drunk with innocents' blood!
If not, why, in a moment look to see
For 'tis no trusting to yond foolish lout,
be seen through the lion's neck: and he himself
Newly preferr'd from the king's secretary,
And there an end; but now they rise again,
I would cozen the man of his wife and do his service.
Shake thou to look on 't. Get thee back to Caesar,
The army of the queen hath got the field:
That bore thee at a burden two fair sons:
And did not I in rage depart from thence?
Nay, but the devil take mocking: speak, sad brow and
the third time; I hope good luck lies in odd
See you where Benedick hath hid himself?
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
My love shall hear the music of my hounds.
in a sleep, and, giving him the lie, leaves him.
In pleasure of my spleen.' And in this fashion,
Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk
And, till thou be restored, thou art a yeoman.
Is that lead slow which is fired from a gun?
More than a wild exposture to each chance
I warrant you, that man is not alive
The lists and full proportions, are all made
SCENE I. Westminster. A street.
She is not hot, but temperate as the morn;
bidding of a monarch and his countenance enforces homage.
too loud, or tainting his discipline; or from what
SCENE I. The same.
and a bastard, and a knave, and a rascal. What ish
That nature's fragile vessel doth sustain
So many miles upon her peaceful bosom,
That could endure the toothache patiently,
Great Hector was a man as good as he.
knower, and Patroclus is a fool.
But one fiend at a time,
There had made a lasting spring.
At duty, more than I could frame employment,
And so did I.
may creep in here; and throw foul linen upon him, as
'Tis the god Hercules, whom Antony loved,
And partly, seeing you are beautified
Good Lord, what madness rules in brainsick men,
Exit CLEOPATRA
This hand of mine hath writ in thy behalf,
To keep mine own, excuse it how she can.
My lord, from head to foot.
What do you think the hour?
But heaven keeps his part in eternal life.
And thane of Cawdor too: went it not so?
Well, you may fear too far.
If so, my eyes are oftener wash'd than hers.
Ha! little honour to be much believed,
And do you, Gratiano, mean good faith?
If thou deny'st it twenty times, thou liest;
but first let me tell ye, if ye should lead her into
Exeunt
As I belong to worship and affect
I am senseless of your wrath; a touch more rare
Of none but such as you, and you of Timon.
Nor Cymbeline dreams that they are alive.
Before this ancient sir, who, it should seem,
conscience, la!
It pleased your majesty to turn your looks
Who comes with him?
By his best arrow with the golden head,
Most dearly welcome to the Greeks, sweet lady.
If thou consider rightly of the matter,
'Gainst us, our state, our subjects, or our land.
There is one goat for you.
If your mind dislike any thing, obey it: I will
Enter DUKE
Oft have you--often have you thanks therefore--
And wonder what they were and to what end
But did you ever tell him she was false?
Which first was mine own king: and here you sty me
Or did he make the jest against his will?
the tongs and the bones.
Base dunghill villain and mechanical,
SCENE I. A plain near Mortimer's Cross in Herefordshire.
There shall he sit till noon.
O Lord, have mercy on us, wretched sinners!
Against the senseless winds shalt grin in vain,
Chance as fair and choose as true!
O heavens themselves!
To tender it herself. I undertook it,
Drum and colours. Enter MALCOLM, SIWARD and YOUNG  SIWARD, MACDUFF, MENTEITH, CAITHNESS, ANGUS, LENNOX, ROSS, and Soldiers, marching
There's magic in thy majesty, which has
Upon these slanderers.
look you, and friendly communication; partly to
To every varied object in his glance:
I do mistake my person all this while:
Then God take mercy on brave Talbot's soul;
If this uncouth forest yield any thing savage, I
Love me or love me not, I like the cap;
The white cold virgin snow upon my heart
the hill; we'll walk afoot awhile, and ease our legs.
A knave; a rascal; an eater of broken meats; a
what things are we!
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Had come along with me, but that his mistress
I do assure you, 'tis against my will.
There was a Brutus once that would have brook'd
Enter TROILUS
in, equivocator.
DON
Stand close; I hear them coming.
Let me play the fool:
Itself, and all my treason; that I suffer'd
The breese upon her, like a cow in June,
Most bitterly on you, as putter on
They found him dead and cast into the streets,
rod of marshalship, a coronet on his head.
He shall not live; look, with a spot I damn him.
wherein crafty, but in villany? wherein villanous,
But riddle-like lives sweetly where she dies!
Pardon me, sir, your bad entertainment.
There stripp'd himself, and here upon his arm
Y-ravished the regions round,
conscience. The poor Transylvanian is dead, that
To curb those raging appetites that are
Only to part friends:
Have shaken Edward from the regal seat,
Seize him, AEdiles!
O, no, no, no.
To prove you a cipher.
Speak, captain, shall I stab the forlorn swain?
Yet could I bear that too; well, very well:
Why, all our ranks are broke.
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
To be desired to give. It much would please him,
Are from their hives and houses driven away.
Like a demigod here sit I in the sky.
I say it is the moon.
I would not be ambitious in my wish,
I sin in envying his nobility,
Each day still better other's happiness;
I will be bright, and shine in pearl and gold,
Dissolve my life! The next Caesarion smite!
'Tis sweating labour
More valour in me than my habits show.
To lean upon: but it would warm his spirits,
I will not hence and leave my husband here:
Hack'd one another in the sides of Caesar:
Damsel, I'll have a bout with you again,
What say you? will you yield, and this avoid,
Fie on her! see, how beastly she doth court him!
That eye my daughter lent her: 'tis most true.
Otherwise I renounce all confidence.
But on mine honour dare I undertake
Even till the eastern gate, all fiery-red,
Nero is an angler in the lake of darkness.
My wish receive,
'Who chooseth me shall get as much as he deserves.'
Those centuries to our aid: the rest will serve
Orlando, my liege; the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys.
What else may hap to time I will commit;
By Janus, I think no.
you and her husband entreat her to splinter; and, my
See, how the pangs of death do make him grin!
Enter a Servant
Presumptuous priest! this place commands my patience,
Unless thou yield thee as my prisoner.
And make proud Saturnine and his empress
Stand not upon the order of your going,
Against their father, fool me not so much
pray, can you read any thing you see?
May be the letter moved him;
What, are you mad, that you do reason so?
At his return
perjury, to call a prince's brother villain.
not of him in the court. Let me speak with the
Thou shalt stand cursed and excommunicate.
Unclasp, unclasp:
all he was in woman's apparel, I would not have had
To follow me and praise my eyes and face?
When mistresses from common sense are hid;
The wealthy curled darlings of our nation,
But how long shall that title 'ever' last?
What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
Do paint the meadows with delight,
Will bring me off again. What's this? 'To the Pope!'
Meetest for death: the weakest kind of fruit
Or shall we play the wantons with our woes,
Being once display'd, doth fall that very hour.
DON
I'll make you feed on berries and on roots,
deep glass of rhenish wine on the contrary casket,
Whether I have been to blame or no, I know not:
Beseeching him to give her virtuous breeding--
Exit MAMILLIUS
Sir, it was I.
Hath made thee hard in't. Why shouldst thou hate men?
Than yours, my lord.
This wide-chapp'd rascal--would thou mightst lie drowning
I warrant him consul.
Go off; I discard you: let me enjoy my private: go
More dazzled and drove back his enemies
What storm is this that blows so contrary?
Upon the company you overtake?
Tell me, may not a king adopt an heir?
And make and mar
Witness that here Iago doth give up
To join like likes and kiss like native things.
The English whisper together in council
Sir Gilbert Peck his chancellor; and John Car,
Come buy of me, come; come buy, come buy;
Why do you put these sayings upon me?
Great nature cries 'Deny not.' let the Volsces
That he can hither come so soon,
So horridly to shake our disposition
As thoughts do blow them, higher and higher.
My liberty.
As when thou grew'st thyself.
knocked about the mazzard with a sexton's spade:
But surely master, not a rag of money.
Sings
Thou subtle, perjured, false, disloyal man!
That thou return'st no greeting to thy friends?
To wake Northumberland and warlike Siward:
Isis, hear me this prayer, though thou deny me a
Do you see this? Look on her, look, her lips,
Not what you are, I know it will excuse
Fair sir, and you my merry mistress,
And scarr'd the moon with splinters: here I clip
That Tiber trembled underneath her banks,
crave your assistance.
The worst is worldly loss thou canst unfold.
Madam,
It is too general a vice, and severity must cure it.
The consul Coriolanus.
The scourge of greatness to be used on it;
Come away, come away, death,
Yet blessing on his heart that gives it me!
Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS
Not sound, I say.
My lord, you played once i' the university, you say?
Well, thou wert be horribly chid tomorrow when thou
king: it may concern much. Stay not thy
There, There, Hortensio, will you any wife?
Her young ones in her nest, against the owl.
SCENE III. London. Before the Tower.
Garter, in his coat of arms, and on his
that without any further delay than this very evening.
Till holy church incorporate two in one.
Derived from Edward, his great-grandfather.
Exeunt
Right welcome, sir!
De nails. Ecoutez; dites-moi, si je parle bien: de
No, my lord.
Gave you a dancing-rapier by your side,
The county will be here with music straight,
Farewell, good cousin; farewell, gentle friends.
and thou art as full of envy at his greatness as
Well, I promised you a dinner. Come, come, walk in
And his pond fish'd by his next neighbour, by
empty it in the muddy ditch close by the Thames side.
There's neither faith, truth, nor womanhood in me else.
not brown neither,--
What's your dark meaning, mouse, of this light word?
If thou dost find him tractable to us,
Or lowly factor for another's gain;
like 'em: I could wish my best friend at such a feast.
Then, if we lose this battle,
Nay, do not pause; for I did kill King Henry,
Take hence the rest, and give them burial here.
My lord, here stays without
Further than he is Caesar.
The which he lacks; that to provoke in him,
Take him over the costard with the hilts of thy
To shake all cares and business from our age;
players that I have seen play, and heard others
And, had you not by wondrous fortune come,
Count, take of me my daughter, and with her my
And if thy poor devoted suppliant may
Sir, I will walk here in the hall: if it please his
myself like one that I am not acquainted withal;
Yet a tailor might scratch her where'er she did itch:
Of that we hold an idol more than he?
As did the fatal brand Althaea burn'd
From whence we had our being and our birth.
were best meddle with buck-washing.
Now, by my sword, well hast thou fought to-day;
What Caesar doth, what suitors press to him.
What an exchange had this been without boot! What
Your deeds of war and all our counsel die?
For notes of sorrow out of tune are worse
wrestling, which you have lost the sight of.
Exeunt
You must not now deny it is your hand:
Your widow-dolour likewise be unwept!
of his will.
Lodged in the abbey; where the reverend abbot,
I call'd thee then poor shadow, painted queen;
Have made them mules, silenced their pleaders and
I am the youngest of that name, for fault of a worse.
happiness, glad of other men's good, content with my
Enter EDGAR and GLOUCESTER
By wasting ruin of the cruel foe.
You are a fool. You, niece, provide yourself:
Better at home, if 'would I might' were 'may.'
This is not well, rash and unbridled boy.
For their fell faults our brothers were beheaded;
Exit MARCIUS
Trust me, I take him for the better dog.
Alas, poor man!
Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate.
Is't like that lead contains her? 'Twere damnation
Come, we'll inform them
If I have fewest, I subscribe in silence.
Had I plantation of this isle, my lord,--
Come, mistress; come your ways with me.
Else would I tear the cave where Echo lies,
perpendicular,--
Her sceptre so fantastically borne
Could not find death where I did hear him groan,
Your grace may starve perhaps before that time.
As glorious to this night, being o'er my head
Come, kiss.
Although assail'd with fortune fierce and keen,
How fares my lord?
Let me say 'amen' betimes, lest the devil cross my
Where you shall find me well accompanied
With his own sword,
when I give the watch-'ords, do as I pid you:
That cannot do that feat, you'll leave yourself
And all probation will make up full clear,
Do better upon them.
courtesy would invent some other custom of
My commendations great, whose merit's less.
Go, go, poor soul, I envy not thy glory
Enter CATESBY
Thou art right welcome as thy master is.
Though, haply, well for you.
it: I loved you not.
Haply I see a friend will save my life
are no worse, if imagination amend them.
A footman, sweet sir, a footman.
And so let me entreat you leave the house.
Enter two Pages
hand. Oh, oh, oh!
My lord, will you walk? dinner is ready.
Metheglin, wort, and malmsey: well run, dice!
I care not if thou dost for me as much.
No: let my father seek another heir.
Even with his pestilent scythe.
Nay, I know not. You have heard of the news abroad;
King Malchus of Arabia; King of Pont;
Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty,
rank as a fox.
Thou art the king of honour:
Alarum and excursions. Enter KING EDWARD IV, bringing forth WARWICK wounded
clean. nor believe he can have every thing in him
Confusion's near; I cannot speak. You, tribunes
How now, you secret, black, and midnight hags!
Why, bishop, is Norfolk dead?
An otter, Sir John! Why an otter?
The mathematics and the metaphysics,
Our project's life this shape of sense assumes:
Your servant, princes. Good my lord of Rome,
'--O heart, heavy heart,
Madam!
The queen your mother rounds apace: we shall
Why whisper you, my lords, and answer not?
Since the first sword was drawn about this question,
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
it was against our will.
For goodness dare not cheque thee: wear thou
False to his bed! What is it to be false?
Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself
No, my dear'st love,
Undraws the curtains
The best she hath, and she, of all compounded,
And say I spoke with you.
Like to an enter'd tide, they all rush by
Of those effects for which I did the murder,
Ha, ha, ha! So, you're paid.
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
Beats BIONDELLO
Macbeth.
Which is it, girl, of these? Open them, boy.
And, by my troth, I think thou lovest me well.
This cannot be,
maintain it to be fit, that, sons at perfect age,
Thou shalt continue two and forty hours,
Bless you, fair dame! I am not to you known,
Lysander, keep thy Hermia; I will none:
For powers in Scotland; which, for divers reasons
Shall gild her bridal bed and make her rich
To LAUNCE
good boy, by the Lord, so they call me, and when I
You know no Centaur? you received no gold?
Devise but how you'll use him when he comes,
'Twill be naught:
This bud of love, by summer's ripening breath,
Now, pray thee, come;
These kind of knaves I know, which in this plainness
Were you well served, you would be taught your duty.
out. Well, I'll be revenged as I may.
That in gold clasps locks in the golden story;
In sooth, you are to blame.
Madam, he swore that he did hold me dear
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
True, I talk of dreams,
That the fixed sentinels almost receive
To quit him with this arm? and is't not to be damn'd,
Nay, it is in a manner done already;
Never, my lord; therefore prepare to die.
Out of your best advice.
But that belike Iago in the interim
Love my wife!
Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look;
and many other evidences proclaim her with all
his destiny with him.
ACT V
I am sorry to give breathing to my purpose,--
Just, just; and the men do sympathize with the
Thy will by my performance shall be served:
Holds from all soldiers chief majority
Then there is no true lover in the forest; else
Even till destruction sicken; answer me
I cannot speak him home: he stopp'd the fliers;
Rode on his tide. Go tell him this, and add,
This is the indictment of the good Lord Hastings;
Lord, Lord! methought, what pain it was to drown!
Are at their beads, 'tis hard to draw them thence,
this, it shall seem to signify.
The worst is this, that, at so slender warning,
Like captives bound to a triumphant car.
In penalty alike; and 'tis not hard, I think,
Arm me, audacity, from head to foot!
the incursions, thou strikest as slow as another.
O, do not swear!
And this unwieldy sceptre from my hand,
And after scandal them, or if you know
The noontide sun, call'd forth the mutinous winds,
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Camillo, this great sir will yet stay longer.
Nay, but how dearly he adores Mark Antony!
There is a queen, attended by a Moor;
at the brow.
With any passion of inflaming love,
digested. You stayed well by 't in Egypt.
Re-enter PRINCE HENRY and LORD JOHN OF LANCASTER
But, most of all, agreeing with the proclamation.
Then dreams, he of another benefice:
Moor, she was chaste; she loved thee, cruel Moor;
Iago hath direction what to do;
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
For God's love, let me hear.
Where youth, and cost, and witless bravery keeps.
Enter PAROLLES
I have eyed with best regard and many a time
monstrous, and for the multitude to be ingrateful,
The captive is enriched: on whose side? the
A sacrilegious thief, to do't: the temple
Stand more for number than for accompt.
plague upon Antenor! I would they had broke 's neck!
'Tis she is sub-contracted to this lord,
And now, to soothe your forgery and his,
The purchase is to make men glorious;
So let the Turk of Cyprus us beguile;
Oh, sir, upon her nose all o'er embellished with
I see by you I am a sweet-faced youth.
With quiet hours; for I do protest,
Peel'd priest, dost thou command me to be shut out?
A cocker'd silken wanton, brave our fields,
And for the same he promised me a chain:
Enter HOTSPUR, WORCESTER, MORTIMER, and GLENDOWER
I have writ me here a letter to her: and here
But what will you be call'd?
forth such fruit.
Speak, captain, for his life, and I will thee requite.
For taking bribes here of the Sardians;
And when came George from Burgundy to England?
capital? Tell me, for you seem to be honest plain
Which, if he take, shall quite unpeople her
Should become kings of Naples? O, rejoice
To his father, that so tenderly and entirely
What, strike his wife!
Is done unto thy hand: the last she spake
Ladies, withdraw: the gallants are at hand.
If I chance to talk a little wild, forgive me;
be ta'en from her.
purpose you undertake is dangerous;'--why, that's
Doth any here know me? This is not Lear:
And turns the sun to shade; alas! alas!
I will not do them wrong; I rather choose
Commencing in a truth? I am thane of Cawdor:
in the defence yet is weak: unfold to us some
A thousand pieces!
I beseech you, what manner of man is he?
For that same scrubbed boy, the doctor's clerk,
Against whom comest thou? and what's thy quarrel?
Caesar refused the crown that it had almost choked
These eyes that never did nor never shall
Then plainly know my heart's dear love is set
And that my sovereign's presence makes me mild,
to me 'My honest friend Launcelot, being an honest
But we keep whole by land. This speed of Caesar's
Will send thee hither both thy sons alive;
Commodity, the bias of the world,
Disdain and scorn ride sparkling in her eyes,
Therefore be deaf to my unpitied folly.
The money that you owe me for the chain.
Bring us the letter; call the messenger.
To mitigate the scorn he gives his uncle,
O, how I long to have some chat with her!
ACT II
This vengeance on me had they executed.
hath great care to please his wife.
in this age his own tomb ere he dies, he shall live
for you; and here's some for me: we may call it
Worth seizure do we seize into our hands,
The grey-eyed morn smiles on the frowning night,
Wife, bid these gentlemen welcome. Come, we have a
Appear and aid me in this enterprise.
Which shows me mine changed too; for I must be
I lost a couple, that 'twixt heaven and earth
Get horses for your mistress.
More noble blows than ever thou wise words;
Or else my kingdom stands on brittle glass.
comfort. She calls you, coz: I'll leave you.
After all this, how did he bear himself?
Lady, a word: I'll bring you to your father.
And that the French were almost ten to one,
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
For thousand Yorks he shall not hide his head,
I will do any modest office, my lord, to help my
You take my part from me, sir; I have the most cause
For Antony,
For thee, O Imogen, even for whom my life
Didst thou not mark the king, what words he spake,
This Tunis, sir, was Carthage.
Says very wisely, 'It is ten o'clock:
I am your spaniel; and, Demetrius,
Good queen, my lord,
She is not within hearing, sir.
That he would rather have Antonio's flesh
That hath so cowarded and chased your blood
Thus far into the bowels of the land
For now he lives in fame, though not in life.
Thou dreadful Ajax; that the appalled air
To free King Henry from imprisonment
Makes a pass at CASSIO
As well as he that sleeps; lords that can prate
gelding, than my wife with herself; then she plots,
No.
Death on the wheel or at wild horses' heels,
All dead.
have neither words nor measure, and for the other, I
And, friends unknown, you shall bear witness to 't:
To-morrow to my bloody creditor.
We did believe no less.
Bound sadly home for Naples,
Stood here observing him: some strange commotion
And so farewell, Signior Lucentio.
pedlar, by education a cardmaker, by transmutation a
Upon agreement from us to his liking,
And then, I hope, thou wilt be satisfied.
what in the world he is
Than youthful April shall with all his showers:
At your choice, sir.
Prefix'd by Angelo: see this be done,
For Henry, son unto a conqueror,
It must and shall be so: content thyself.
By heaven, she is a dainty one. Sweetheart,
preeches. Go your ways, and play; go.
We charge you, in the prince's name, stand!
But such a day to-morrow as to-day,
Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot
For I will henceforth be no more unconstant.
You may as well go stand upon the beach
come again in his affairs, unless it be to report
But come yourself with speed to us again;
By many an ounce--he dropp'd it for his country;
Welcome, good Clarence; this is brotherlike.
The king's will be perform'd!
Richard yet lives, hell's black intelligencer,
appears much joy in him; even so much that joy could
Of purpose to obscure my noble birth.
In their distractions; they now are in my power;
Park about midnight, at Herne's oak, and you shall
Timon will to the woods; where he shall find
I've heard him utter to his son-in-law,
Pembroke and Stafford, you in our behalf
Sort how it will, I shall have gold for all.
Thy other banish'd son, with this dear sight
hollow: but a good heart, Kate, is the sun and the
And able horses. No porter at his gate,
Enter EROS with armour
Be better suited:
Not yet thou knowest me, and, seeing me, dost not
I promised here to meet.
A dagger of the mind, a false creation,
confounded one the other, or have fallen both.
He is not here, so please your lordship that should sing it.
of idiot worshippers, here's a letter for thee.
Now, by mine honour, by my life, by my troth,
In a cowslip's bell I lie;
He fastened on my neck, and bellow'd out
To whose high will we bound our calm contents.
But lay down our proportions to defend
To make that worse, suffer'd his kinsman March,
See, she will speak to him.
Shall we go throw away our coats of steel,
I am sorry for thee: thou art come to answer
This sword hath ended him: so shall it thee,
sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him of
Briefly thyself remember: the sword is out
That he should come about your royal person
The chastity he wounded. Cytherea,
born to be hanged, our case is miserable.
Go you, sir, to the senators--
Who should express her goodliest. You have seen
By my valour, the most complete champion that ever I
And 'tis well seen he found an enemy.
Mine eyes are not o' the best: I'll tell you straight.
Sir, you are very welcome to our house:
Toward Calais: grant him there; there seen,
As much to you, good sister! Whither away?
SCENE IV. Another part of the forest.
I cannot reach so high.
French thrift, you rogues; myself and skirted page.
Or covetous of praise,--
[Aside]	The Duke of Milan
Hark, Perdita
'Twas a rough night.
Be you content, fair maid;
That live in her; when liver, brain and heart,
For beauty lives with kindness.
Nay, I told you your son was well beloved in Padua.
What say the augurers?
'Faith, she would serve after a long voyage at sea.
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes out
Enter a Lady
Where ill men were; and was the best of all
Lending me this acquaintance. I pray you, go
There to dispose this treasure in mine arms,
I speak it with a single heart, my lords,
They seek revenge and therefore will not yield.
We have a maid in Mytilene, I durst wager,
ne'er got 'em.
What thou hast said to me.
Men of his way should be most liberal;
And, by my faith, this league that we have made
Gentlemen and friends, I thank you for your pains:
Resumes his mantle
Living to time.
enfreedoming thy person; thou wert immured,
Why I should yield to thee?
Albeit unused to the melting mood,
And, of so great a favour growing proud,
Experience, O, thou disprovest report!
Exeter, thou art a traitor to the crown
This bodiless creation ecstasy
Hath publish'd and proclaim'd it openly:
We turn not back the silks upon the merchant,
Win upon power and throw forth greater themes
As thou hast power and person.
The safety and health of this whole state;
Indeed, that tells a heavy tale for him: conclude,
She that you gaze on so as she sits at supper?
And, gladly quaked, hear more; where the
Somewhither would she have thee go with her.
What, are there no posts dispatch'd for Ireland?
In our black sentence and proscription.
said to a niece of King Gorboduc, 'That that is is;'
Ay, that she can.
The wretched animal heaved forth such groans
of my mouth, ere it is made and finished. I speak
And I have seen thee pause and take thy breath,
And prompt me, plain and holy innocence!
But I am truest speaker you call'd me brother,
For, by my soul, I'll ne'er acknowledge thee,
sport; I will show you a monster. Master doctor,
which his wife seems to me well-favored. I will
came any from mine that might offend your majesty.
Through forth-rights and meanders! By your patience,
Here do I choose, and thrive I as I may!
Sleeps
In the line-grove which weather-fends your cell;
Keep house and ply his book, welcome his friends,
What is her burying grave that is her womb,
off so good a wife and so sweet a lady.
And make them dread it, to the doers' thrift.
SCENE II. OLIVIA's house.
If you say ay, the king will not say no.
Hear you, master steward, where's our master?
'Tis a good hearing when children are toward.
Either led or driven, as we point the way;
To LEONTES
That Ferdinand is drown'd?
Let him that will a screech-owl aye be call'd,
Receive the ring again.
thy master's father, Vincentio?
With thy most operant poison! What is here?
The long-grown wounds of my intemperance:
For thousands more, that yet suspect no peril,
Because he is near kinsman unto Charles.
Dear almost as his life; which gratitude
Play'd foul play with our oaths: your beauty, ladies,
Left I the court, to see this quarrel tried.
Unworthy as I am, to follow you.
Best sing it to the tune of 'Light o' love.'
Lest it may mar your fortunes.
No, she shall not dismay me: I care not for that,
Ay, grief, I fear me, both at first and last.
The princess of this country, and the air on't
Hide thy head, Achilles: here comes Hector in arms.
Since his majesty went into the field, I have seen
would do reason.
And rails, and swears, and rates, that she, poor soul,
Satisfy!
Than the performance of our heaving spleens,
And welcome, welcome! die where thou hast lived:
man if you see him?
For vainer hours and tutors not so careful.
You'ld venture an emballing: I myself
To see the making of her carcanet,
Helenus? no. Yes, he'll fight indifferent well. I
But felt a fever of the mad and play'd
I know not that, when he knows what I know.
To thee a woman's services are due:
Of a night-brawler? give me answer to it.
And on his son young John, who two hours since
Consent to marry with Demetrius,
'Tis all one, I will show myself a tyrant: when I
A deadly groan, like life and death's departing.
As not to know the language I have lived in:
Of an one pain, save for a night of groans
Bade me rely on him as on my father,
Excepting one, I would he were the best
And show like those you are. You, worthy uncle,
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
dead, there needs none to be blamed. Marry, if he
Should bring thy father to his drooping chair.
If good, thou shamest the music of sweet news
I have a thousand spirits in one breast,
Lag of a brother? Why bastard? wherefore base?
So, now go tell, an if thy tongue can speak,
compass, Sir John.
Which, till my infant fortune comes to years,
She says I am not fair, that I lack manners;
Four, Hal; I told thee four.
For fear of what might fall, so to prevent
Doth ill deserve by doing well; what's worse,
And, like a Sinon, take another Troy.
he vent Trinculos?
As jealous creatures are, it were enough
Than all the princes in the land beside:
That would not bless our Europe with your daughter,
Go, gentlemen,
SCENE I. Tarsus. An open place near the sea-shore.
nightingale. Hopdance cries in Tom's belly for two
'Tis a derivative from me to mine,
Do thou thy master's bidding: when thou see'st him,
None, sir; I have no pheasant, cock nor hen.
This is the palace of the fearful king,
Provided that you weed your better judgments
Exit
If there be such a dart in princes' frowns,
And if he stand on hostage for his safety,
Call'st thou that harm?
O, thou shalt find--
Ay, and melodious were it, would you sing it.
Some powerful spirit instruct the kites and ravens
We have some haste, Leonato.
Let us pursue him ere the writs go forth.
And that same dew, which sometime on the buds
For this is thine and not King Henry's heirs'
Come apace, good Audrey: I will fetch up your
She that could think and ne'er disclose her mind,
I have outstood my time; which is material
That all the court admired him for submission:
for, I protest, her frown might kill me.
Go you to him from me.
Well met, honest gentleman.
love no man in good earnest; nor no further in sport
But stay the very riping of the time;
They call false caterpillars, and intend their death.
Let's ha't, good Grumio.
Shame to him whose cruel striking
For I am sick and capable of fears,
Honest Iago, that look'st dead with grieving,
And meeting him will tell him that my lady
All souls that will be safe fly from my side,
on him, I charge you, in the duke's name. O, my
The young'st and oldest thing.
Thy personal venture in the rebels' fight,
Saddle my horses; call my train together:
And drop the liquor of it in her eyes.
And here from gracious England have I offer
Let him demand his fill.
His garments are rich, but he wears
To hang thee on; or wouldst thou drown thyself,
Here's a young maid with travel much oppress'd
Exit MOTH
Whose want even kills me.
I have been closely shrouded in this bush
Then pleaded I for you.
Is not more loathed than an effeminate man
What makes treason here?
Sir, he may live:
Pardon me, sir; it was a black ill-favor'd fly,
Saw his heroical seed, and smiled to see him,
You have simply misused our sex in your love-prate:
What, my old worshipful old master? yes, marry, sir:
Exit
You do not understand yourself so clearly
I should be glad to hear such news as this
not that strange?
None should come at him.
Lord, have mercy upon me! I shall never be able to
And beggar'd yours for ever?
Unless thou swear to me my child shall live.
As his composure must be rare indeed
Our tradesmen with in their shops and going
SCENE III. The same.
cousin will say so.
command; I have turned away my other guests: they
Thunder above and deeps below
I beseech your grace, let this letter be read:
Stir up their servants to an act of rage,
Wanting the scythe, all uncorrected, rank,
She should that duty leave unpaid to you,
For, being transported by my jealousies
Exeunt
price of pork.
That, in regard King Henry gives consent,
You love the breeder better than the male.
This cardinal's more haughty than the devil.
And wish, so please my sovereign, ere I move,
An honest woman, or not a woman.
Than ever you or yours were by me wrong'd!
The ruthless flint doth cut my tender feet,
He is arrested, but will not obey;
At the twelvemonth's end
With casted slough and fresh legerity.
ANTIPHOLUS
for the gift: the other is not a thing for sale,
Into my grave.
Lawful as eating.
With hard bright steel and hearts harder than steel.
To bar heaven's shaft, but sin had his reward.
In all which time you and your husband Grey
Did not the heavenly rhetoric of thine eye,
That I can keep your counsel and not mine own.
My Lord of Suffolk, say, is this the guise,
silent, and not confess so much, were a kind of
Whispers
Fare thee well:
the king, his crown and dignity, thou hast built a
We have a power on foot; and I had purpose
That you are so.
Ay, mistress bride, hath that awaken'd you?
I chose her when I could not ask my father
Keep this remembrance for thy Julia's sake.
Himself with his good arms in lusty stroke
Thy hand upon that match.
The secret'st man of blood. What is the night?
May all to Athens back again repair
direction till thy death! then if she that lays thee
that puts the world into her person and so gives me
Now therefore would I have thee to my tutor--
But when we know the grounds and authors of it,
Oh, sir, I did not look so low. To conclude, this
The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and
Bears all down with her brain; and this her son
I come to visit the afflicted spirits
to bind him up a rod, as being worthy to be whipped.
play the workman. I dare speak it to myself--for it
My lord and lady, it is now our time,
Sir, the duke's pleasure is, that you keep Costard
If you do free your children from the sword,
The commons hath he pill'd with grievous taxes,
Soft! who comes here?
Pitied nor hated, to the face of peril
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
but, I pray you, tell me, is my boy, God rest his
Disburse the sum on the receipt thereof:
This did I fear, but thought he had no weapon;
[Aside]  I wish not so; unless it had been the fall
Where is the horse that doth untread again
Where's Romeo's man? what can he say in this?
Take away this villain; shut him up.
If it be man's work, I'll do 't.
Drawing his sword
Take this of me, Kate of my consolation;
And, as the long divorce of steel falls on me,
my pack will hold.
Then nightly sings the staring owl, 	Tu-whit;
His new-come champion, virtuous Joan of Arc,
Draw, archers, draw your arrows to the head!
are scarce cater-cousins--
Plead a new state in thy unrivall'd merit,
Out, sword, and wound
The Roman ladies bring not comfort home,
Free pardon to each man that has denied
We shall begin our ancient bickerings.
Ho, gentlemen! my lord calls.
Be patient, York: if we conclude a peace,
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
The baby of a girl. Hence, horrible shadow!
Myself the crying fellow did pursue,
And, being troubled with a raging tooth,
And in this private plot be we the first
sorrows I might be some allay, or I o'erween to
Attend you here the door of our stern daughter?
on his wife's frailty, yet I cannot put off my
now I let go your hand, I am barren.
We'll leave you for this time: go in and rest.
We'll forward towards Warwick and his mates;
What's to be thought of him? does the rumour hold
Flies where you bid it, I find that she, which late
And what is written shall be executed.
And by their vehement instigation,
Fare ye well:
Enter MENENIUS with the two Tribunes of the people, SICINIUS and BRUTUS.
Importing Denmark's health and England's too,
So shalt thou sinew both these lands together;
DON
I would you had her spirit in such another:
Juno sings her blessings upon you.
What says she to my face?
To make an envious mountain on my back,
I hear his drum: be copious in exclaims.
you enough; and when you have seen more and heard
That all your acts are queens.
Who leads towards Rome a band of warlike Goths,
No more a soldier: bruised pieces, go;
Henry the Fifth: whiles they each other cross,
But bid farewell, and go: when you sued staying,
at home, he had lived.
I have been troubled in my sleep this night,
Help, help, O, help!
And ta'en, I fear.
Love, and be silent.
Unless thou let his silver water keep
ANTIPHOLUS
Believe me, on mine honour,
There's one grape yet; I am sure thy father drunk
And little mouse, every unworthy thing,
Enter four or five Players
The fresh springs, brine-pits, barren place and fertile:
SCENE IV. OLIVIA's garden.
Fear him not, Caesar; he's not dangerous;
Is like to lay upon us.
Or docks, or mallows.
For it engenders choler, planteth anger;
For virtue and true beauty of the soul,
Must by the roots be hewn up yet ere night.
Clarence, thy turn is next, and then the rest,
I accuse them not.
To this effect, before you were new crown'd,
That labour, sir. All's now done, but the ceremony
it, Master Brook.
From Goneril his mistress salutations;
'Hic ibat Simois; hic est Sigeia tellus;
Good boy, in Virgo's lap; give it Pallas.
lately spoke of him admiringly and mourningly: he
Good my lord,--
Employ thee then, sweet virgin, for our good.
Denounced against thee, are all fall'n upon thee;
You will never run mad, niece.
At one fell swoop?
SCENE I. The sea-coast.
Sweet leaves, shade folly. Who is he comes here?
Cesario, you do not keep promise with me.
The more pity, that fools may not speak wisely what
Et le coude?
If he should break his day, what should I gain
It strikes where it doth love. She wakes.
triumphantly tread on thy country's ruin,
Not to be pardon'd, am content withal.
garters! If I be ta'en, I'll peach for this. An I
O, cut my lace, lest my heart, cracking it,
Reproach and dissolution hangeth over him.
Come, wait upon him; lead him to my bower.
With Rosaline, my ghostly father? no;
Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
'Twere good, I think, your lordship sent him thither:
I'll not to Rome, I'll back with you; and pray you,
The time will not allow the compliment
He's within, sir, but not to be spoken withal.
To kill him, Clitus. Look, he meditates.
Exit
varied, like a scholar at the least: but, sir, I
Sound a flourish, with drums
A sort of naughty persons, lewdly bent,
But issued from the progeny of kings;
What say'st thou? majesty! I am but grace.
If thou love me, 'tis time thou wert away.
Smiles at her news, while Warwick frowns at his.
Say that I wish he never find more cause
But for the sunset of my brother's son
Lash hence these overweening rags of France,
That's all I seek:
Pinch him, and burn him, and turn him about,
O God, what mischiefs work the wicked ones,
food for thee.
a fool's paradise, as they say, it were a very gross
That I am forsworn for thee;
A pox of that jest! and I beshrew all shrows.
Should be shut up, hear what Ulysses speaks.
What law does vouch mine own.
man as other men are;' and there indeed let him name
The monstrous bulk of this ingratitude
I almost die for food; and let me have it.
A very little little let us do.
What, John Rugby! John!
Such as befits the pleasure of the court?
And spare no blood beside.
But that I am bound in charity against it!
Giving him a chain from her neck
Dauphin, command the citizens make bonfires
Please you to accept it, that the queen is spotless
Enter a Servant
Sir,
Antonio, gratify this gentleman,
I hinder you too long: good night, Sir Thomas.
Call her forth, brother; here's the friar ready.
I am right glad that his health is well, sir: and
his horn full of good news: my master will be here
To GONERIL
The fall of every Phrygian stone will cost
To Bourdeaux, warlike duke! to Bourdeaux, York!
O, let me clip ye
Exit
Thy wit, that ornament to shape and love,
From Perigenia, whom he ravished?
nor Italian, and you will come into the court and
You may partake of any thing we say:
Make haste, make haste.
You know the law, your exposition
Those that I reverence those I fear, the wise:
A man of such a feeble temper should
As it behoves my daughter and your honour.
Welsh plood out of your pody, I can tell you that:
O monstrous coward! what, to come behind folks?
Thus out of season, threading dark-eyed night:
the chronicles; we came in with Richard Conqueror.
To what we wildly do, so we profess
become the function well, nor lean enough to be
And quench'd the stelled fires:
made, if thou desirest to be so; if not, let me see
A better never did itself sustain
And she, like harmless lightning, throws her eye
But as a thing of custom: 'tis no other;
The trumpets sound. Enter HENRY BOLINGBROKE, appellant, in armour, with a Herald
For by his face straight shall you know his heart.
Mad let us grant him, then: and now remains
I'll write unto them and entreat them fair.
And I would call it, fair play.
And what to?
End ere I do begin.
That darkness does the face of earth entomb,
coach-fellow Nym; or else you had looked through
board 'em. Servant-monster, drink to me.
Or madly think a babe of clouts were he:
Most dull, honest Dull! To our sport, away!
Where thou and I henceforth may never meet.
And keep their impious turbans on, without
Shall Romeo bear thee hence to Mantua.
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
Yet more quarrelling with occasion! Wilt thou show
Shall be a fume, and the receipt of reason
To the selfsame tune and words. Who's here?
For I am arm'd so strong in honesty
'Twas a good sensible fellow: well.
am the besom that must sweep the court clean of such
The better part of ours are full of rest.
And to the nightingale's complaining notes
Making that idiot, laughter, keep men's eyes
I thank you, princes, for my daughter's death:
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Do you not know I am a woman? when I think, I must
Since I have lost, have loved, was in mine eye
Cassio came hither: I shifted him away,
DON
To see how inly sorrow gripes his soul.
With prayers for the provider.
Yet she must die, else she'll betray more men.
Come hither, knight; come hither, Fabian: we'll
M, O, A, I; this simulation is not as the former: and
We judge no less. Uncle of Exeter,
And so do I.
Of that there's none, or little.
Is it possible disdain should die while she hath
And call'd them blind and dusky spectacles,
For being preferred so well.
Lord Warwick, on thy shoulder will I lean;
Madam, the same; your servant.
But what likelihood is in that?
Here at the door; I pray you, call them in.
Arrest thee of high treason, in the name
Exeunt all but Antipholus of Syracuse, Antipholus of Ephesus, Dromio of Syracuse and Dromio of Ephesus
Should he make me
To blazon it, then sweeten with thy breath
I embrace you.
She-wolf of France, but worse than wolves of France,
I mind to tell him plainly what I think.
With true observance seek to eke out that
And do not stand on quillets how to slay him:
Enter CHARLES
Name of mercy, when was this, boy?
Why dost thou lash that whore? Strip thine own back;
Each jealous of the other, as the stung
SCENE IV. A room in FORD'S house.
That comes in likeness of a coal-black Moor.
Therefore a health to all that shot and miss'd.
Enter BERTRAM
have daffed all other respects and made her half
How? thy wife?
Each minute teems a new one.
More daring or more bold, is now alive
And it is nothing, nothing in the world;
She may, my lord, for--
But, woe is me, you are so sick of late,
And this is all.
Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
To tell him that his sword can never win
No woman may approach his silent court:
The heads of Brocas and Sir Bennet Seely,
Neither: he took this place for sanctuary,
In the fair multitude of those her hairs!
Enter ARTEMIDORUS, reading a paper
Drawing
Let me not hold my tongue, let me not, Hubert;
Is this the madman?
Bardolph!
I do arrest thee of high treason here.
Or else, good night your vow!
Thus stands the case: you know our king, my brother,
Will I my master's tears to you deplore.
Sir, he doth in some sort confess it.
Pauca verba, Sir John; goot worts.
How now, my as fair as noble ladies,--and the moon,
Which fear if better reasons can supplant,
Stands in some rank of praise.
As if you were a feasted one and not
No, on my life.
We'll measure them a measure, and be gone.
Their woes are parcell'd, mine are general.
I told him of the army that was landed;
Exit SIR ANDREW
And now it is about the very hour
Cornets. Enter CORIOLANUS, MENENIUS, all the Gentry, COMINIUS, TITUS LARTIUS, and other Senators
Can send his brother: and, but infirmity
Pronounce thee a gross lout, a mindless slave,
Never so much as in a thought unborn
That hath more mind to feed on your blood than live
Well
Follow the knave; and take this drab away.
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!
And they, 'twas they, that did her all this wrong.
What profane wretch art thou?
But yet indeed the lesser is his daughter
Madam, I will.
Hotspur of the north; he that kills me some six or
Which he deserves to lose. Whether he was combined
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
Ah, Exeter!
Well, for two of them, I know them to be as
Giving a ring
To banish him that struck more blows for Rome
That's my office.
Or made a toast for Neptune. Even so
Must or for Britons slay us, or receive us
[Within]  What ho, my liege! for God's sake,
It may be so, but I did never see it.
Turn our blown sails; eftsoons I'll tell thee why.
Stand up, lord.
Rests by you only to be qualified:
Good Master Froth, look upon his honour; 'tis for a
O God, I fear thy justice will take hold
My mind gave me,
If it mar nothing neither,
Marvellous sweet music!
A fool, sir, at a woman's service, and a knave at a man's.
On Thursday next be married to this county.
Your offer. Come, dearest madam. O, no tears,
You wait on nature's mischief! Come, thick night,
to eat and none to fight. Now is it time to arm:
Exit
Sir?
have relished among my other discredits.
Two of thy name, both Dukes of Somerset,
I mean the whispered ones, for they are yet but
extravagancy. But I perceive in you so excellent a
A milk-sop, one that never in his life
I am not an impostor that proclaim
The incense of a vow, a holy vow,
Why, are you foolish? Can it be undone?
I would appeach him.
Give't me again: poor lady, she'll run mad
'Tis sport to maul a runner.
In faith, for little England
'Tis best to give him way; he leads himself.
'Tell me what fate awaits the Duke of Suffolk?
Having alike your cause? Of this my letters
His majesty hath straitly given in charge
Break too.
She's otherwise, I'll keep my stables where
Hath told the thievish minutes how they pass,
[Aside]  'Tis true; such pearls as put out
And so ingrateful, you deny me that.
Dear, look up:
with love than I will get again with drinking, pick
His legs bestrid the ocean: his rear'd arm
SCENE IV. The same. A room in the palace.
Thou and Oxford, with five thousand men,
Fiddler, forbear; you grow too forward, sir:
You ne'er kill'd Imogen til now. Help, help!
No, his mouth is stopp'd;
For going on death's net, whom none resist.
He'll never hear him.
Ay, why not? Grace is grace, despite of all
France together: why the devil should we keep
My lord?
Spakest thou of Juliet? how is it with her?
The mind that I do! what a sleep were this
Enjoy thy plainness,
or four wenches, where I stood, cried 'Alas, good
Exit ALEXAS
If the skin were parchment, and the blows you gave were ink,
The lustre in your eye, heaven in your cheek,
knaves as any in Messina.
Whilst I, with those that have the spirit, will haste
What kind of my obedience I should tender;
My Antony is away.
He's coming.
You wrong me, sir, thus still to haunt my house:
The torrent roar'd, and we did buffet it
With circumstance and oaths so to deny
But have I fall'n, or no?
Another fall of man. Their faults are open:
No more but so?
Myself no joy in nought but that thou livest.
You are a churchman, or, I'll tell you, cardinal,
Let's exchange charity.
Whilst I remember
Good night, good night! as sweet repose and rest
That I did love thee, Caesar, O, 'tis true:
Enter KING RICHARD
What, is the king encamped?
And when mine oratory grew to an end
Subscribes
Persuade this rude wretch willingly to die.
Ay, while you live, draw your neck out o' the collar.
Supply your present wants and take no doit
bread and garlic: say that I said so. Farewell.
First, never to unfold to any one
and if I bring thee not something to eat, I will
Thou dost deserve enough; and yet enough
That she with Cassio hath the act of shame
And thus I clothe my naked villany
To RATCLIFF
Ha! now I see thou art a fool, and fit for thy master.
What's he that speaks for Edmund Earl of Gloucester?
And thy assistance, is King Richard seated;
ACT I
Hath love in thy old blood no living fire?
Stands for my bounty. But who comes here?
They fight. WARWICK comes; CLIFFORD flies
That such a keech can with his very bulk
A Grecian's life hath sunk; for every scruple
And I a heavy interim shall support
Here, noble lord: what is thy will with her?
Which were the greatest obloquy i' the world
CASSIO and RODERIGO are borne off
Enter BIONDELLO
You shall not be admitted to his sight.
Your hidden worthiness into your eye,
Thou wouldst have told this tale for virtue, not
Ha, ha, ha!
Shall we well meet them; that way are they coming.
You are a gentleman and a gamester, sir.
here! but 'tis most certain your husband's coming,
And Brutus is an honourable man.
My Lady Grey his wife, Clarence, 'tis she
Re-enter CASSIO, driving in RODERIGO
'Tribunes!' 'Patricians!' 'Citizens!' 'What, ho!'
withdrawing.
Where no priest shovels in dust. O cursed wretch,
To have a thankless child! Away, away!
But, dost thou hear? gavest thou my letter to Julia?
Therefore I'll make him sure; yea, and I'll swear I
And that the trunk may be discharged of breath
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
Over whom, in time to come, I hope to reign;
To do your grace incessant services.
There is one tree, the phoenix' throne, one phoenix
Even such, they say, as stand in narrow lanes,
Consort! what, dost thou make us minstrels? an
wholesome iniquity have you that a man may deal
First, as I am his kinsman and his subject,
To run and show their shoulders. Friends, be gone;
My uncles both are slain in rescuing me;
affection; by mine honour, I will; and when I break
were more than they can commend.
He that shall live this day, and see old age,
My lord, you know I love you.
Have their round haunches gored.
I'll watch as long for you then. Approach;
my king and master; so much my office.
He had a fever when he was in Spain,
Confined to exhibition! All this done
Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?
Be you his eunuch, and your mute I'll be:
Strangely neglected? when did he regard
will change; 'twas wont to hold me but while one
Will my lord say so?
And will deny him:
I am undone: there is no living, none,
Form'd by the eye and therefore, like the eye,
I wish you the peace of mind, most royal couplement!
Come, noble Burgundy.
leave you one o' these days: and I have a rheum
What you as from your father shall deliver,
And from that womb where you imprison'd were
That ran through Caesar's bowels, search this bosom.
purpose as then each bore, upon importance of so
By my troth, and in good earnest, and so God mend
Faith, here it is.
But it reserved some quantity of choice,
And as for you yourself, our quondam queen,
And thou with all pleased, that hast all achieved!
For England his approaches makes as fierce
As when thy father and myself in friendship
Are mortised and adjoin'd; which, when it falls,
Indeed, he plied them both with excellent praises.
I'll tell her the next time I see her: for my part,
And thy commandment all alone shall live
Enter FASTOLFE
Sky-planted batters all rebelling coasts?
I humbly thank him, and I thank you all.
And spend his prodigal wits in bootless rhymes
What, is he dead?
A world of torments though I should endure,
Bow themselves when he did sing:
they laugh at him and beat him. I am sure he is in
Such a Sebastian was my brother too,
For courage mounteth with occasion:
But pared my present havings, to bestow
joy crown another, so and in such manner that it
Or felt the flatteries that grow upon it!
A horse and a man
True: those that were your father's enemies
We will not from the helm to sit and weep,
Enter GLOUCESTER
Between this chastised kingdom and myself,
He lays his breast open: she offers at it with his sword
inkle?'--'One penny.'--'No, I'll give you a
To more approved service and desert.
'But I will never die.'
sorrow that e'er I heard virgin exclaim in: which I
Go to, go to; peace, peace; we must deal gently
She will find him by starlight. Here she comes; and
How much an ill word may empoison liking.
Yet have I gold flies from another coast;
should flout him, if he writ to me; yea, though I
Who would not have his wife so?
Thy tears are salter than a younger man's,
wilful Actaeon; and to these violent proceedings all
How I shall take her from her father's house,
[Kneeling]          I am down again:
Here is the man, this Moor, whom now, it seems,
The king is to be feared as the lion: dost thou
Her eye discourses; I will answer it.
So, good night, with lullaby.
The boy is foolish, and I fear not him.
Remain a pinch'd thing; yea, a very trick
Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen;
My favour here begins to warp. Not speak?
Whate'er the course, the end is the renown.
She hath betray'd me and shall die the death.
with thee. Go thy ways: let my horses be well
A cockatrice hast thou hatch'd to the world,
ACT III
Therefore, we banish you our territories:
It pleases your worship to say so, but we are the
here are simple scapes. Well, if Fortune be a
Exit
Have their ingratitude in them hereditary:
'Tis a noble Lepidus.
But ere we could arrive the point proposed,
Athwart the sea. Behold, the English beach
See that forthwith Duke Edward be convey'd
Causeless have laid disgraces on my head,
To crouch in litter of your stable planks,
Their graces serve them but as enemies?
And, even in thy behalf, I'll thank myself
To do a great right, do a little wrong,
Come, fellow, follow us for thy reward.
SCENE II. Another room in the castle.
Hath almost overta'en him in his growth.
Consider who the king your father sends,
Deliberate pause: diseases desperate grown
I hope your warrant will bear out the deed.
Come, go, good Juliet,
And bring me their opinions of success.
sweet instruments hung up in cases that keep their
I praise God for you.
good, here's none will hold you. Their love is not
For wicked Cleon and his wife, when fame
And bring him out that is but woman's son
Come, sirrah, you must be hanged.
Can you inquire him out, and be edified by report?
And by those fearful objects to prepare
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Besides, to be demanded of a sponge! what
Which is as dear to me as life itself;
To know our enemies' minds, we'ld rip their hearts;
Thou liest.
A vapour sometime like a bear or lion,
Will't please you taste of what is here?
What she says I'll confirm: we'll fight it out.
The graces for his merits due,
Farewell: the leisure and the fearful time
fellows in the world, an a man could light on them,
So must slender Rosalind.
Good Mistress Accost, I desire better acquaintance.
'Gainst me, that I cannot take peace with:
Would they work in mild aspect!
Comes it not something near?
The fee-simple! O simple!
Ungovern'd youth, to wail it in their age;
O, you say well.
Exit
So thou apprehendest it: take it for thy labour.
It is our pleasure one of them depart;
But tell me; how was there a costard broken in a shin?
May be she pluck'd it off
Why he, a woollen bagpipe; but of force
That he spake to thee?
As fancy values them; but with true prayers
And not have title of an earldom here.
That not your trespass, but my madness speaks:
Suivez-vous le grand capitaine.
Exeunt
Than words can witness, or your thoughts can guess.
Of beauteous Margaret hath astonish'd me:
A marvellous witty fellow, I assure you: but I
As stuff for these two to make paradoxes.
Heavens make our presence and our practises
O abominable!
I have considered so much, Camillo, and with some
Alarum. Enter FALSTAFF, solus
[Advancing]  Welcome, good Robin.
walk with you, and so following, but I will not eat
How now, sirrah! how goes the world with thee?
Which thou shouldst bear me: only that name remains;
The sun that sear'd the wings of my sweet boy
Ay.
A babe to honour her! If she must teem,
No, nor Hector is not Troilus in some degrees.
Or Bassianus so degenerate,
That did renew old AEson.
If he could right himself with quarreling,
Not body's death, but body's banishment.
So then two bosoms and a single troth.
Not for myself, Lord Warwick, but my son,
Vilely bound up? What would he say? Or how
Why, brother, wherefore stand you on nice points?
Can hold it up: here I and sorrows sit;
We'll borrow place of him.
Thou chidest me well: proud Bolingbroke, I come
But thorough lust and laughter. Pity's sleeping:
And most pernicious purpose! Seeming, seeming!
close-stool to give to a nobleman! Look, here he
A pair of tribunes that have rack'd for Rome,
My mother is assailed in our tent,
Gold strew'd i' the floor. Here's money for my meat:
that's coming toward him.
So shall no foot upon the churchyard tread,
A sample to the youngest, to the more mature
For curious I cannot be with you,
My lord, whoever journeys to the Prince,
Do not smile at me that I boast her off,
Adopts thee heir, and his high sceptre yields
Is love a tender thing? it is too rough,
And found--dispatch. The noble duke my master,
proper cost and charges, without having any dowry.'
company, and our devices known. In the meantime I
And let us to the Tiger all to dinner,
SCENE I. Before Alexandria. OCTAVIUS CAESAR's camp.
With eggs, sir?
I can bear my part; you must know 'tis my
Below the beam of sight, yet will I still
till they've swallowed the whole parish, church,
Have by some surgeon, Shylock, on your charge,
And appetite, an universal wolf,
Here is like to be a good presence of Worthies. He
That had not half a week to go, like rams
Unless to spy my shadow in the sun
We will not look upon him: go with us.
The happy man; whether defect of judgment,
O wretched villain!
Tush, tush, man; never fleer and jest at me:
Some, of violated vows
By Cressid's rule: rather think this not Cressid.
death: you know the course is common. If any thing
Yet bury him as a prince.
ACT IV
For our case is as theirs.
To CATESBY
This day had plotted, in the council-house
As you would to your friend.
But keep the hills and upper regions;
My gracious silence, hail!
Then you lost
And your fair show shall suck away their souls,
Truly, sir, the better for my foes and the worse
He beats thee 'gainst the odds: thy lustre thickens,
If you'll implore it, that will free your life,
Why should you fall into so deep an O?
What, with five thousand men?
The warrants for yourself; take heed to't.
Alarum. The Romans are beat back to their trenches. Re-enter MARCIUS cursing
My wit untrain'd in any kind of art.
They retire
And whiles the honourable captain there
So we, well cover'd with the night's black mantle,
That give a name to every fixed star
see the man, that has but two legs, that shall find
When that the watery palate tastes indeed
Which art a lion and a king of beasts?
Come hither, boy: ask me this slave in French
In glory of my kinsman Hercules.
Commend me to my kinsmen and my son:
Tell him that, by his licence, Fortinbras
For this immediate levy, he commends
You may be jogging whiles your boots are green;
We thank you, maiden;
Nor to comply with heat--the young affects
More bright in zeal than the devotion which
Of egal justice, used in such contempt?
They hang their heads
I pray, draw near.
To start my quiet.
Then, till the fury of his highness settle,
That's a brave god and bears celestial liquor.
Go, do our bidding; hence!
The villain is much lighter-heel'd than I:
Or my friends, if I should need 'em.
As they are going out, enter EDGAR disguised
He's discontented.
Ay, a minced man: and then to be baked with no date
Now, York, or never, steel thy fearful thoughts,
Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness?
But is there any?
Bear with her weakness, which, I think proceeds
I humbly beseech you, sir, to pardon me all the
SCENE I. Verona. An open place.
Well, I will smite his noddles. Pray you, follow.
SCENE I. Rome. A public place.
Well, my lord,
Who's there?
Enter, with drum and colours, HENRY BOLINGBROKE, DUKE OF YORK, NORTHUMBERLAND, Attendants, and forces
Which should be thine or his: silenced with that,
ACT IV
know me! The prince's fool! Ha? It may be I go
My lord, I have news to tell you.
And yet, how nature erring from itself,--
Where shall be shown you all was found with her;
There's something more would out of thee; what say'st?
Of any kindred action like to this?
Shall blow ten thousand souls to heaven or hell;
Neither disturbed with the effect of wine,
This the very coinage of your brain:
But could be willing to march on to Calais
asked them once or twice what they had in their
The resignation of thy state and crown
And for his sake wear the detested blot
Follow us to the court. Thou churl, for this time,
the coast on Wednesday the four-score of April,
Go, call her in.
This gentleman told somewhat of my tale,--
With an auspicious and a dropping eye,
As you will live, resolve it you.
Thy safety being the motive.
go; vanish into air; away!
The heads of the maids?
I shot his fellow of the self-same flight
Tends to God's glory and my country's weal.
Exeunt all but SOMERSET, HENRY OF RICHMOND, and OXFORD
To make amends, Ill give it to your daughter.
For, ere the six years that he hath to spend
With this night's revels and expire the term
Upon him as he pass'd: the nobles bended,
If I should pay your worship those again,
Both thanks and use. But I do bend my speech
Enough then for your wonder. But, come on,
That from his loins no hopeful branch may spring,
And there my rendezvous is quite cut off.
Gave healthful welcome to their shipwreck'd guests;
What is this?
What dost thou with thy best apparel on?
So there's my riddle: one that's dead is quick:
With the help of your good hands:
Marcius,
Against our rampired gates, and they shall ope;
Pardon, good Mercutio, my business was great; and in
O, how mine eyes do loathe his visage now!
Shall so wear out to nought. Dost thou know me?
Know you not he has?
But a hare that is hoar
Lest in revenge thereof, sith God is just,
Poor gentleman! his wrong doth equal mine.
Crying, 'That's good that's gone.' Our rash faults
By this hand, sir, his wife is a more respected
Receive the sentence of the law for sins
I am come to know your pleasure.
Be of good comfort, prince; for you are born
O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd:
chamber; for Pyramus and Thisby says the story, did
Enter GRATIANO, LORENZO, SALARINO, and SALANIO
Ay, and for much more slaughter after this.
Yet this my comfort: when your words are done,
You are welcome hither.
Look, what thy soul holds dear, imagine it
[Aside]  I know that Deformed; a' has been a vile
Sent by the king your father
Which often hath no less prevail'd than so
To a dear friend of the good Duke of York's,
Ajax commands the guard to tend on you.
'Tis a very excellent piece of work, madam lady:
religion in you, that you fear.
The second, silver, which this promise carries,
It is hypocrisy against the devil:
Now she sharpens: well said, whetstone!
Farewell, my lord: good wishes, praise and prayers
You are as welcome, worthy sir, as I
But, peace! for from broad words and 'cause he fail'd
Adieu! tears exhibit my tongue. Most beautiful
As passes colouring.
That for the fault's love is the offender friended.
O Antony, beg not your death of us.
Which, like a waxen image, 'gainst a fire,
able to woo her in good English.
tricks which sorrow shoots
O bitter consequence,
That's not so, sir: we are your enemies.
How shall we, then, behold their natural tears?
Neither to you nor any one; having no witness to
was a fishmonger: he is far gone, far gone: and
Would he not be a comfort to our travel?
blown up: marry, in blowing him down again, with
For, if I should as lion come in strife
will ensconce your rags, your cat-a-mountain
For though usurpers sway the rule awhile,
'And shall!' what villain was it that spake
O my brave emperor, this is fought indeed!
And for alliance sake, declare the cause
These signs have mark'd me extraordinary;
And as a bed I'll take them and there lie,
Enter JESSICA, above, in boy's clothes
Alas, and woe!
[Awaking]  What angel wakes me from my flowery bed?
For often, with a solemn earnestness,
I have awhile given truce unto my wars,
many of us: that we did, we did for the best; and
Unto this king of smiles, this Bolingbroke,--
Enter LORENZO
Enter OCTAVIUS CAESAR, DOLABELLA, THYREUS, with others
Stand, stand, thou Greek; thou art a goodly mark:
And heaven itself doth frown upon the land.
followers. Go you and prepare Aliena; for look
And give as soft attachment to thy senses
The king hath on him such a countenance
Be blind with tears, and break o'ercharged with grief.
I must dance bare-foot on her wedding day
I will discharge my bond and thank you too.
which none must know but the king; and which he
Strives Bolingbroke to be as great as we?
Come, boy.
Englishman. Scurvy jack-dog priest! by gar, me
He hath ribbons of an the colours i' the rainbow;
For any or for all these exercises,
That handkerchief
shall I be appointed hours; as though, belike, I
Draw the huge bottoms through the furrow'd sea,
I hold dear as my finger; 'tis part of it.
As likely to be blest in peace and war;
A bastard son of Priam's.
You have hit it.
And to survey his dead and earthly image,
beneficial news, it is the celebration of his
In terms of friendship with thine enemies.
Re-enter others of the Watch, with FRIAR LAURENCE
RICHARD
I have seen them in the church together: God send
That this same child of honour and renown,
Already, will their good thoughts call from him.
To one not sociable: I am not very sick,
I know not how much more, should be demanded;
Your fellow Tranio here, to save my life,
My niece's chambermaid.
SCENE III. The same.
How now, good Cassio! what's the news with you?
good of Rome, I have the same dagger for myself,
Thy grandam loves thee; and thy uncle will
I have, my liege.
When least in company. Prosper well in this,
general dependants as in the duke himself also and
And Prospero the prime duke, being so reputed
And every jest but a word.
When all our pageants of delight were play'd,
As the remembrance of an idle gaud
affection to your honour, and to no further
Replying shrilly to the well-tuned horns,
Exeunt
But rather wishing a more strict restraint
Your highness knows. Their nurse, Euriphile,
I will look further into't: and I have a disguise
not in the lineaments of Nature.
Let him make treble satisfaction.
Are now confined two mighty monarchies,
My life upon't, young though thou art, thine eye
Doth want example: who hath read or heard
Triumphant death, smear'd with captivity,
But, as we often see, against some storm,
Exit CALIBAN
Do not chafe thee, cousin:
And in the cup an union shall he throw,
For thou set'st on thy wife.
Good my lord,--
Deaf'd with the clamours of their own dear groans,
Which didst unworthy slaughter upon others.
From her his dearest one,
we fought, I doubt we should have been too young for them.
of ill opinions, here's the twin-brother of thy
When brewers mar their malt with water;
I will live in thy heart, die in thy lap, and be
That should have murdered Bassianus here.
Marry, well said; very well said. Look you, sir,
It is not so with Him that all things knows
By falsehood and corruption doth it shame.
If that thou best a devil, I cannot kill thee.
When our most learned doctors leave us and
Here pitch our battle; hence we will not budge.
With my master's ship? why, it is at sea.
A prodigy of fear and a portent
I come to tender it and my appliance
hence the child?
tale shall put you down. Then did we two set on you
And rap me well, or I'll knock your knave's pate.
I am too old to fawn upon a nurse,
Kills himself
Ah, that my fear were false! ah, that it were!
On Tuesday noon, or night; on Wednesday morn:
To envelop and contain celestial spirits.
That's a deep story of a deeper love:
That he did stay?
Tut, these are petty faults to faults unknown.
That is, were I under the terms of death,
So that my speed to Mantua there was stay'd.
Had so much grace to put it in my mind.
I do, truly; for thou swearest to me thou art
I do defy him, and I spit at him;
If thou say so, withdraw, and prove it too.
a leg, put off's cap, kiss his hand and say nothing,
tenderness of her nature became as a prey to her
And threaten present blusters. In my conscience,
Since I must lose the use of all deceit?
Why, then, farewell;
But there's a saying very old and true,
basket. Go up; I'll bring linen for him straight.
widow Dido!
Yea, providently caters for the sparrow,
be no great love in the beginning, yet heaven may
The leaf to read them. Let us toward the king.
And to my state grew stranger, being transported
Misguide thy opposers' swords! Bold gentleman,
were of my mind,--
I have been consul, and can show for Rome
Varro's Servant	Thou art not altogether a fool.
honourable friend, Agrippa!
Enter two Sailors
To ope their golden eyes:
Do not infest your mind with beating on
Love, and be friends, as two such men should be;
Here shall they make their ransom on the sand,
The danger of the task you undertake.
O dear Diana,
Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge:
Exit
And every thing that seems unnatural.
inventoried, and every particle and utensil
And when he was a babe, a child, a shrimp,
He is coming, sir, he is coming; I hear his straw rustle.
Are nobly undergone and most poor matters
You and your ways; whose wraths to guard you from--
My unprovided body, lanced mine arm:
to-morrow. By my troth, Isabel, I loved thy brother:
Ay, Apemantus.
Nor me, so I were one.
Thou shalt aby it.
Will I Rosalinda write,
In such a gorgeous palace!
Thereof most worthy, were I the fairest youth
gross: inkles, caddisses, cambrics, lawns: why, he
If she do frown, 'tis not in hate of you,
Never was waves nor wind more violent;
It comes not ill; I hate not to be banish'd;
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
shall not shortly have a rasher on the coals for money.
A fair name. Wast born i' the forest here?
Ambassador to the emperor, you made bold
sleep? Master Ford awake! awake, Master Ford!
His rage can do on me: you must be gone;
And spurn upon thee, beggar, for thy boldness.
To fierce and bloody inclination.
[Aside]  If not, I'll ne'er trust medicine.
be magnanimous in the enterprise and go on; I will
Imagine him a Frenchman and thy foe.
Sweet saint, for charity, be not so curst.
Swear like a ruffian and demean himself
Madam, undress you and come now to bed.
Than for the love of reckless Silvia.
Monsieur Le Beau.
I like the new tire within excellently, if the hair
Takes the Child from the Nurse, and draws
May be beholding to a subject, I
O, this boy
By the same token, you are a bawd.
The 'why' is plain as way to parish church:
themselves. What wouldst thou do with the world,
Not for Cadwallader and all his goats.
Come, temperate nymphs, and help to celebrate
Exit
I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
But we will make it subject to this boy.
Hungary's!
O, thy letter, thy letter! he's a good friend of mine:
To frustrate both his oath and what beside
I fear, I fear,--
Gall, worse than gall, the daintiest that they taste!
To PERICLES
into some monastery; but, by chance, nothing of what
SCENE III. Before Angiers.
torment thee, and still thou livedst but as a
Enter DIOMEDES, with CRESSIDA
Thou needs must be englutted. Besides, in mercy,
Re-enter MARIANA and ISABELLA
This is the most despiteful gentle greeting,
By the king.
For gay apparel 'gainst the triumph day.
He presently, as greatness knows itself,
The patroness of heavenly harmony:
Dishonour not your mothers; now attest
Where now you're both a father and a son,
Didst ever hear a man so penitent?
ACT IV
leap-frog, or by vaulting into my saddle with my
and by east from the west corner of thy curious-
Further I say and further will maintain
For shame, bring Juliet forth; her lord is come.
Beyond self-explication: put thyself
speech we had to such a purpose.
My lord, you do me most insupportable vexation.
I saw't i' the orchard.
You must sing a-down a-down,
Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood!
Gracious madam,
heart wept blood. Who was most marble there changed
Sweats in the eye of Phoebus and all night
Sir Eglamour, a thousand times good morrow.
This oath I willingly take and will perform.
By sudden flight: come, dally not, be gone.
By the gods, I have not:
devil himself will not eat a woman: I know that a
And it shall privilege him from your hands
mine honour thou hadst it not.
Tut! I have the best armour of the world. Would it were day!
Between our after-supper and bed-time?
crown. I know no ways to mince it in love, but
And will with deeds requite thy gentleness:
So turns she every man the wrong side out
We cannot miss him: he does make our fire,
O, he sends you for a picture.
Didst thou hear these verses?
Not now.
5. Mayor of London, bearing the mace. Then
No, in truth, sir, he should not. 'Deceiving me'
Come, thou tortoise! when?
Seeing this goodly vessel ride before us,
My gracious prince, and honourable peers,
As thou
Gratiano speaks an infinite deal of nothing, more
Her beauty and the value of her dower,
Pardon me, Margaret; pardon me, sweet son:
His son was but a ward two years ago.
Nor I neither by this heavenly light;
We have been down together in my sleep,
and their consent of one direct way should be at
Pray, entertain them; give them guide to us.
Nay, more, an enemy unto you all,
I grant you, friends, if that you should fright the
Now in good time, here comes the duke himself.
SCENE IV. A room in DOCTOR CAIUS' house.
important, tell him there is measure in every thing
Oui, vraiment.
His wisdom can provide. Some holy angel
What is the matter?
Whiles we enjoy it, but being lack'd and lost,
My answer must be made. But I am arm'd,
Exeunt
Away, fond woman! were he twenty times my son,
'Tis well, Lavinia, that thou hast no hands;
Which I will purchase with my duteous service;
Then you love us, we you, and we'll clasp hands:
Or I'll attach you by this officer.
The duke and all that know me in the city
To every several man, seventy-five drachmas.
Ay, the grinding; but you must tarry
My son and I will have the wind of you:
brutish villain! worse than brutish! Go, sirrah,
were as good crack a fusty nut with no kernel.
An if my word be sterling yet in England,
Enter a Doctor
Thy death and fortunes bid thy followers fly.
Macbeth doth come.
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
O were the sum of these that I should pay
what is thy name? discuss.
Stole from my bed: and yesternight, at supper,
And from this testimony of your own sex,--
He did arrest me with an officer.
Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
The heavens give safety to your purposes!
I understand not what you mean by this.
'Tis nobly spoken:
Well, march we on,
Shall I call you father?
As faithfully as I deny the devil.
And plant in tyrants mild humility.
Yet art thou slain in him: thou dost consent
Than pity for mischance!
I remember a mass of things, but nothing distinctly;
What a piece of work is a man! how noble in reason!
And ye choice spirits that admonish me
shall get it with running. Sa, sa, sa, sa.
What! am I dared and bearded to my face?
When from the first to last betwixt us two
And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh
Who then conceiving did in eaning time
That he which hath no stomach to this fight,
Scattering flowers
That undergo this charge? who else but I,
[Aside]  Pray heaven she win him!
PARIS passes
'She loves another'--Who calls, ha?
Ay me, for pity! what a dream was here!
Ha, banishment! be merciful, say 'death;'
Are well foretold that danger lurks within.
And all the rest revolted faction traitors?
Right.
Think upon me! hang 'em!
Our captain hath in every figure skill,
Repose you there; while I to this hard house--
Abated captives to some nation
Which I could with a ready guess declare,
Only for his possessions are so huge,
And for the sake of them thou sorrowest for,
England, for itself.
Which, once discern'd, shows that her meaning is,
Prove you that any man with me conversed
Who's there?
Alas, that love, so gentle in his view,
Why, so didst thou: seem they grave and learned?
When my indispos ition put you back:
The extreme dangers and the drops of blood
Kept in a dark house, visited by the priest,
So sure I swear to get the town or die.
To the great sender turns a sour offence,
I here renounce him and return to Henry.
inconstant, full of tears, full of smiles, for every
The prenzie Angelo!
Speak not, reply not, do not answer me;
Unto his son Lorenzo and his daughter.
It is too little, helping him to all;
Good night, good Captain Blunt. Come gentlemen,
Will see his burial better than his life.
To myself nothing. Speak the truth, Seleucus.
For barbarous and unnatural revolts
No, I thank you, forsooth, heartily; I am very well.
Suppose that I am now my father's mouth;
To withhold the vengeance that they had in store,
I should have ta'en some pains to bring together
Or more afraid to fight, than is the appellant,
Still so cruel?
Troth, sir, she hath eaten up all her beef, and she
already in the field.
His child is like to her, fair as you are:
Of Pericles the careful search,
And, for they cannot, die in their own pride.
And since we have the vaward of the day,
Witness good bringing up, fortune and truth:
Even by my god I swear to thee I will.
'Tis my fault, Master Page: I suffer for it.
My heart for anger burns; I cannot brook it.
That young swain that you saw here but erewhile,
Melted as the snow, seems to me now
Poor ignorant baubles!-- upon our terrible seas,
I say lead is slow.
If I did take the kingdom from your sons,
And Tybalt's dead, that would have slain my husband:
Were they all made such men. How now, Pisanio!
But far beyond my depth: my high-blown pride
Are come with Cassius.
house, and lands, and wife and all, from me.
him above, his complexion is higher than his; he
Of bloody turbulence, and this whole night
They fight
Enter NORFOLK at one door; at the other, BUCKINGHAM and ABERGAVENNY
SCENE I. A room in the castle.
Yet hear me, countrymen; yet hear me speak.
That doth utter all men's ware-a.
Touches me deeper than you can imagine.
That doth frequent your house.
I humbly thank your highness;
Urge me no more, I shall forget myself;
A bed-swerver, even as bad as those
Signior Baptista may remember me,
Sailing in this salt flood; the winds, thy sighs;
Than you, unless you were a scholar, sir.
How say you, madam? are you now persuaded
and lighted
This happy night the Frenchmen are secure,
worse payment.
What, is he in his bed?
Re-enter BERTRAM, guarded
Exeunt
Her eldest sister is so curst and shrewd
Exeunt
The hind that would be mated by the lion
Whose spirit with divine ambition puff'd
Thou, old Adam's likeness, set to dress this garden,
son? Kings are no less unhappy, their issue not
I will hear that play;
They are infected; in their hearts it lies;
Kneeling
have the best use of eyes to see the way of
O, serve me well, and teach yourselves that duty!
importing the mere perdition of the Turkish fleet,
I am sorry that your leisure serves you not.
using painting, do prove my occupation a mystery:
That after hours with sorrow chide us not!
And turn again unto the warlike French.
Truly, the more to blame he: we were Christians
I'll leave you: pray you, speak to 'em, I pray you,
Here's sport indeed! How heavy weighs my lord!
There's my exchange:
It is your music, madam, of the house.
Peace, ho!
To fall and blast her pride!
Why, then will I tell thee--that thy master stays
If you have poison for me, I will drink it.
Your grace,
Tush, women have been captivate ere now.
must take me up for swearing; as if I borrowed mine
To me or my swift passage, that I slide
Upon his peril, that I have reserved
If that you love Prince Pericles, forbear.
So are you.
Methought I sat in seat of majesty
For such receipt of learning is Black-Friars;
not with fifty of them, I am a bunch of radish: if
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
Care not for issue;
This is the tragic tale of Philomel,
make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon occasion.
My very hairs do mutiny; for the white
peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
Longer, longer.
Ay, so true love should do: it cannot speak;
known to Desdemona: if she will return me my
Of younger spirits, whose apprehensive senses
The people will accept whom he admits.
SCENE VI. Near Misenum.
your victuals: come, there is sauce for it.
Even in the force and road of casualty.
Ay, with Cassio. Nay, had she been true,
And, after many lengthen'd hours of grief,
To dance attendance on their lordships' pleasures,
Enter ORLANDO and JAQUES
What heir of York is there alive but we?
The king, I fear, is poison'd by a monk:
Cry lost, and so good night!
Alas, poor lady!
What is the city but the people?
Enter, on the walls, the Mayor of York, and his Brethren
Being so near the truth as I will make them,
Like sacrifices, by their watchful fires
I come, in kindness and unfeigned love,
Stay yet; hear reason. Edmund, I arrest thee
Against my lord the Duke of Somerset.
Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not:
Worthy of arms! as welcome as to one
He attends your highness' pleasure.
SCENE VII. London. Smithfield.
They play
Enter BEATRICE
You depend upon a noble gentleman; I must needs
The like allayment could I give my grief.
shall be such to Cressid as what envy can say worst
thy pocket but tavern-reckonings, memorandums of
Exeunt HUBERT with PETER
That e'er the sun shone bright on.
This breast from harbouring foul deceitful thoughts.
Shall seem expedient on the now-born brief,
You know it is the feast of Lupercal.
It is an office of the gods to venge it,
Music, and a song
Why, sir, who bade you call her?
Exit Provost
If seriously I may convey my thoughts
is this thy vow unto my sickly heart.
The interruption of their churlish drums
I crave no other, nor no better man.
Exit
When thou liest howling.
Dost thou know the difference, my boy, between a
Shall this his mock mock out of their dear husbands;
very fear.
do, not knowing what they do!
faith, for seventeen poniards are at thy bosom.
fire, or shall I complain on thee to our mistress,
Allons! we will employ thee.
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
Go, take him away, and hang him presently.
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
arms! Warm o' my troth! I do now let loose
tears that ever we shed.
All senses to that sense did make their repair,
Or o' mine either?
Assuredly the thing is to be sold:
A merchant of great traffic through the world,
almost chide God for making you that countenance you
have eat no meat these five days; yet, come thou and
I think, is not for idle markets, sir.
Unless you were of gentler, milder mould.
And, as I am a gentleman, I'll give thee
Who should be pitiful, if you be not?
To cavil in the course of this contract:
Justice to break her sword! One more, one more.
A retreat is sounded
And now I give my sensual race the rein:
When I should take possession of the bride,
I thank you, general;
ACT I
They, knowing Dame Eleanor's aspiring humour,
It nips me unto listening, and thick slumber
Exit
Not Gaunt's rebukes, nor England's private wrongs,
Bid your friends welcome, show a merry cheer:
Shall secretly into the bosom creep
Kind and dear princess!
So long as hell and Richard likes of it.
way!
I will, my lord.
Whoever got thee, there thy mother stands;
Hector is slain.
Tell me once more what title thou dost bear:
father's sake, Henry the Fifth, in whose time boys
Without you? nay, that's certain, for, without you
That's as much as to say, such a case as yours
Besides these, other bars he lays before me,
a jealous tyrant; his innocent babe truly begotten;
Prove it, Henry, and thou shalt be king.
Now will we take some order in the town,
Yea, but
from's time,
'Tis nothing less: conceit is still derived
My back o' t' other side,--O, my back, my back!
Why, therefore Warwick came to seek you out;
As may beseem a monarch like himself.
wrangle with mine own honesty. I'll entertain
If beauty have a soul, this is not she;
Have done to this.
speech, enter into that brake: and so every one
The treason that my haste forbids me show.
Happily you may catch her in the sea;
They most must laugh. And why, sir, must they so?
Give guess how near to day. Lucius, I say!
less to you.
before us, instead of maces, will we ride through
Exit
Tybalt, the kinsman of old Capulet,
All forsworn, all naught, all dissemblers.
My master's man. Strato, where is thy master?
Foul wrinkled witch, what makest thou in my sight?
How tartly that gentleman looks! I never can see
Teach us some fence!
Shortly shall all my labours end, and thou
All hail, my lords! which of this princely train
And that at my bidding you could so stand up.
eat three: if thou wert the fox, the lion would
Than this Lavinia, Bassianus' love.
Hold, there is forty ducats: let me have
The expressure that it bears, green let it be,
It pleased the king his master very late
The hum of either army stilly sounds,
That I have been your wife, in this obedience,
At all acknowledge. For Polixenes,
another letter to her: she bears the purse too; she
Heaven is my judge, not I for love and duty,
To men in joy; but grief makes one hour ten.
That bears so shrewd a maim; two pulls at once;
I would not deny you; but, by this good day, I yield
She shall not.
Praising what is lost
A cittern-head.
Yes, that you did, sir, and forswore it too.
person; and much please the absent duke, if
after do our work.
and delivered to the king her father'--
Madam, how like you this play?
No; let him die, in that he is a fox,
Sirrah, I will not bear these braves of thine.
And thence discover how with most advantage
Will you vouchsafe with me to change a word?
Yet I alone, alone do me oppose
burthen and how she longed to eat adders' heads and
We coldly pause for thee; Chatillon, speak.
A lad of life, an imp of fame;
To POLONIUS
Yet parted but the shadow with his hand.
supplications to his lordship? Let me see them:
And target. Still he mends;
My discontented peers! What! mother dead!
For he tonight shall lie with Mistress Ford.
Ay; would they served us!
Or sell my title for a glorious grave.
Shall, with my cousin, your right-noble son,
What letters hast thou there?--I can but thank you.
I must not yield to any rites of love,
For now the devil, that told me I did well,
Which from the vineyard to the garden leads;
The offer of an hundred thousand crowns
Enter CRESSIDA and ALEXANDER
And let our hearts, as subtle masters do,
God's is the quarrel; for God's substitute,
To-morrow: now, if you could wear a mind
Gertrude, do not drink.
Lucius, save the child,
Come, follow me, boy; come, sir boy, come, follow me:
The queen, my lord, the queen.
The harder match'd, the greater victory:
Was call'd Belarius.
whole, and let burnt sack be the issue. Come, lay
And now I find it; therefore bind them sure,
Your Caesar's father oft,
If I stand here, I saw him.
Lechery, lechery; still, wars and lechery; nothing
In thunder, lightning, or in rain?
thigh: if the man were alive and would deny it,
Dorset, embrace him; Hastings, love lord marquess.
What money, sir?
That eye that told you so look'd but a-squint.
To herald thee from the womb: even at the first
Than the sea-monster!
SCENE II. A bedchamber in the Lord's house.
Exeunt all but BUCKINGHAM
Would stand and make his eyes grow in my brow;
I desire to find him so, that I may worthily note him.
That this great soldier may his welcome know.
'Hic ibat,' as I told you before, 'Simois,' I am
Thus droops this lofty pine and hangs his sprays;
It is your uncle.
Who sensibly outdares his senseless sword,
His horse is slain, and all on foot he fights,
I have, when you have heard what I can say:
My sovereign mistress clouded so, without
Till youth take leave and leave you to the crutch.
Fly! not we.
Upon a rapier's point: stay, Tybalt, stay!
The red rose and the white are on his face,
Were still at odds, being but three.
And I must minister the like to you.
for I know Anne's mind as well as another does. Out
I pray you, sir, take patience: I have hope.
know that of your mouth or of your lips; for divers
They'll talk of state; for every one doth so
Young in limbs, in judgment old,
And fell below his stem: his sword, death's stamp,
Our baleful news, and at each word's deliverance
Once, in a sea-fight, 'gainst the count his galleys
Come, come, I know 'tis good for you.
If I dare eat, or drink, or breathe, or live,
Since, wedding it, there is such length in grief;
me one thing.
The varying shore o' the world. O Antony,
and the case to be lamented: this grief is crowned
Enter ROSALIND and CELIA
After the battle let George Stanley die.
That draws a sword on thee.
Well, I am standing water.
Go take up these clothes here quickly. Where's the
Not Neoptolemus so mirable,
I know vat I have to do. Adieu.
Worthy his goodness. What might I have been,
Will leave us never an understanding friend.
What, a hundred, man?
I with the morning's love have oft made sport,
you.
You are loved, sir:
As doth import you.
This deadly quarrel daily doth beget!
Could out of thee extract one spark of evil
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
Shall make me chide thee, if not hate thee. What!
Then be not poor, but break it, and take this.
My nightingale,
I am cut to the brains.
His excellence did earn it, ere he had it.
Whilst yet with Parthian blood thy sword is warm,
What of him?
The loss you have is but a son being king,
I have sworn an oath that I will have my bond.
My villain!
woman, the modest wife, the virtuous creature, that
But my entreaty too.
What, my good lord?
Makes only wars on thee. Bid them all fly;
When that the sleeping man should stir; for 'tis
Can be at once, shall step by step attend
Throw down, my son, the Duke of Norfolk's gage.
That never saw 'em pace before, the spavin
But, soft! what light through yonder window breaks?
And which the spirit? who deciphers them?
Lay hold upon him, Priam, hold him fast:
Haste you again.
care of him: I would not have him miscarry for the
Then why should they love Edward more than me?
these arms till you had recovered your ancient
So methinks:
as they buy hob-nails, by the hundreds.
I'll tame you; I'll bring you in subjection.
Is fashion'd for the journey, dull and heavy.
And from his bosom purge this black despair!
Here.
Nay, your wit will not so soon out as another man's
His overthrow heap'd happiness upon him;
As honour, love, obedience, troops of friends,
A strange invisible perfume hits the sense
But herein mean I to enrich my pain,
DON
Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire;
SCENE XI. Another part of the same.
To assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
offends me,--
Your features! Lord warrant us! what features!
Run hence, proclaim, cry it about the streets.
The holding.
And say a soldier, Dian, told thee this,
On flickering Phoebus' front,--
Heaven truly knows that thou art false as hell.
Fall not a tear, I say; one of them rates
If she do chide, 'tis not to have you gone;
SCENE II:
What Propugnation is in one man's valour,
A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! a' poured a
you had appointed?
one man picked out of ten thousand.
they belie her. Lie with her! that's fulsome.
Out, treacherous villain!
As a sick girl. Ye gods, it doth amaze me
This absence of your father's draws a curtain,
How now! art thou mad?
As in a theatre, the eyes of men,
You're welcome, my fair guests: that noble lady,
Hear me, Sir Thomas: you're a gentleman
Drunk!
But, soft! methinks I scent the morning air;
Shaking the bloody darts as he his bells.
As I took note of the place, it cannot be far where
as I said; but more than that, he loved her: for
Enter MONTAGUE and others
beef: ne'er ask me what raiment I'll wear; for I
Enter an Egyptian
That when I am in heaven I shall desire
Francis Flute, the bellows-mender.
Slave, thou hast slain me: villain, take my purse:
Who dares receive it other,
are coming.
bonnet unbanded, your sleeve unbuttoned, your shoe
I would not spare my brother in this case,
Nothing afeard of what thyself didst make,
What have you to do here, fellow? Pray you, avoid
BRUTUS and CASSIUS whisper
Like him you are: did you not name a tempest,
[Aside to ISABELLA]  Go to; 'tis well; away!
The hope and expectation of thy time
Mis-shapen chaos of well-seeming forms!
Before you serve.
it ish give over: I would have blowed up the town, so
Smarting in lingering pickle.
Away from the light steals home my heavy son,
Master Hume, we are therefore provided: will her
Lord Rivers and Lord Grey are sent to Pomfret,
Of him it holds, stands young Plantagenet,
And from the cross-row plucks the letter G.
A gentleman of Tyre,
And your affection not gone forth, I'll make you
If I lose them, thus find I by their loss
Northumberland, say thus the king returns:
I find thee apt;
The fixture of her eye has motion in't,
gallantry of Troy: I  would fain have armed to-day,
Men and men's fortunes could I frankly use
Neither the king, nor he that loves him best,
And much effuse of blood doth make me faint.
Shall Suffolk ever have of Margaret.
Come forth.
court in the morning. That same mad fellow of the
with you. You must not know where he sups.
For once allow'd the skilful pilot's charge?
Of hot and forcing violation?
There's place and means for every man alive.
Where is your husband?
To see a goodlier man.
Muddy, ill-seeming, thick, bereft of beauty;
mouth too.
Come, bustle, bustle; caparison my horse.
Descends
is't not? Why, this is brave now. Who said he came
Plants with goodly burthen bowing;
great eater of beef and I believe that does harm to my wit.
Hence hath offence his quick celerity,
[Aside]  I will be patient; I will find out this.
That sought at Oxford thy dire overthrow.
Lies heavy on me; O, my heart is sick!
yet famine,
Of your fair courtesy.
At all times to your will conformable;
Good my lord, will you see the players well
Not sad, my lord.
Adieu: be vigitant, I beseech you.
That time serves still.
Thou art a most pernicious usurer,
Thou say'st the king grows mad; I'll tell thee, friend,
Reply, reply.
Be not as extreme in submission
Die quoth-a? Now gods forbid! I have a gown here;
Would serve your turns.
That thou attend me: thou dost here usurp
For such a warped slip of wilderness
Knocking
O any thing, of nothing first create!
By heart and in heart, boy.
almost spent; I have been to-night exceedingly well
With its sweet air: thence I have follow'd it,
Stay, Roman brethren! Gracious conqueror,
Ere I let fall the windows of mine eyes:
but chiefly a villanous trick of thine eye and a
That only like a gulf it did remain
To 't, luxury, pell-mell! for I lack soldiers.
Would any of the stock of Barrabas
To play my part in Fortune's pageant.
Nothing of him that doth fade
Sir, I say to you we are none.
How low soever the matter, I hope in God for high words.
With leaden legs and batty wings doth creep:
Master, you look'd so longly on the maid,
Than fly to others that we know not of?
I shall be reconciled to him again.
I'll cavil on the ninth part of a hair.
Of good Polixenes; and my ground to do't
That rage in savage sensuality.
I am content to hear; for 'tis as easy
of his eye, forehead, and complexion, he shall find
Neighbours and friends, though bride and
Now thou art come unto a feast of death,
O, my pardon!
And less than this, I am sure, you cannot give.
And hasten your return.
Alas, Malvolio, this is not my writing,
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I,
Or so much as it needs,
I speak to subjects, and a subject speaks,
Where souls do couch on flowers, we'll hand in hand,
Prithee, say.
Exeunt
Of very reverend reputation, sir,
To what is passed already.
that suffers under probation A should follow but O does.
And to your quick-conceiving discontents
Reads
But I had not so much of man in me,
What begg'st thou, then? fond woman, let me go.
'Tis past enduring.
Against the non-performance, 'twas a fear
For it is after midnight; and ere day
Me and my service, ever whilst I live,
from all: the rest
As sweet as balm, as soft as air, as gentle,--
You are too officious
For in my youth I never did apply
Art not thou the Lady Olivia's fool?
This inundation of mistemper'd humour
For well I wot ye blaze to burn them out
Like to a trusty squire did run away:
Himself in person there?
Obedience bids I should not bid again.
Save this of hers, framed by thy villany!
Disorder, horror, fear and mutiny
He hath perverted a young gentlewoman here in
Against the Romans with Cassibelan,
leaves, what is't to leave betimes?
To most that teach.
I will not go to-day; and ere I do,
Exit
their consciences. But, in good sooth, are you he
His mansion and his titles in a place
Of a strange nature is the suit you follow;
But I will gloze with him.--Young prince of Tyre,
The sacred storehouse of his predecessors,
fancy, the jerks of invention? Imitari is nothing:
Let's to the altar: heralds, wait on us:
So did he me: and he no more remembers his mother
There was no link to colour Peter's hat,
Will conquer him! awake, and win the day!
Toadstool, learn me the proclamation.
Is ebony like her? O wood divine!
And such a welcome as I'd give to him
Your beauty: which did haunt me in my sleep
Thus purifies itself and turns to grace.
Why, uncle, what's the matter?
I tell you what Launce, his man, told me: he loved
Lo, how he mocks me! wilt thou let him, my lord?
SCENE VII. Macbeth's castle.
Is heavy in my tongue. The king your father--
His name is Licio, born in Mantua.
Hanging the head at Ceres' plenteous load?
Nephew, what means this passionate discourse,
To learn of me, who stand i' the gaps to teach you,
In Ilion, on your Greekish embassy.
All seals and symbols of redeemed sin,
For it was bad enough before their spite.
Yea, from the table of my memory
For you, great king,
Here's France and Burgundy, my noble lord.
And thy father bore it:
We'll do thee homage and be ruled by thee,
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear:
How he's employ'd: he shall in time be ready.
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet:
Even he, my lord.
To Apemantus, that few things loves better
Thou losest labour:
Long live the king!
called the Reply Churlish. If again 'it was not
That Somerset be sent as regent thither:
O, he's a limb that has but a disease;
Kill the poys and the luggage! 'tis expressly
baggage would but give way to customers.
Chide me, dear stone, that I may say indeed
Thou that contrivedst to murder our dead lord;
Besides, the fashion of the time is changed--
you must be watched ere you be made tame, must you?
Dies
Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello,
up, was she?
Enter DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO
To us that give you truly: by your patience,
A gracious person: but yet I cannot love him;
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
Although I think 'twas in another sense;
That I, forsooth, am stern, and love them not?
Thou must run to him, for thou hast stayed so long
displeased them, as they use to do the players in
Arm, arm with speed: and, fellows, soldiers, friends,
But now I worship a celestial sun.
My major vow lies here, this I'll obey.
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
and so sweet a breath to sing, as the fool has. In
Wound it with sighing, girl, kill it with groans;
of all cess.
When thou canst get the ring upon my finger which
To-morrow, sir: best first go see your lodging.
That he is loved of me: I follow him not
straight: the crowner hath sat on her, and finds it
What you have spoke, it may be so perchance.
In part for his sake moved.
That gentle physic, given in time, had cured me;
And by his side his fruit of bastardy.
Master, master, look about you: who goes there, ha?
Yes, it is apparel.
For the fair kindness you have show'd me here,
Exit
Which to maintain I would allow him odds,
Why, thy godhead laid apart,
Almost no grave allow'd me: like the lily,
And half their faces buried in their cloaks,
Behold her well; I pray you, look upon her:
Hath nodded him to her. He hath given his empire
I have no further with you.' Was not this mockery?
[Aside to COSTARD]  They have been at a great feast
Go, you wild bedfellow, you cannot soothsay.
And in thy face strange motions have appear'd,
Now to Marina bend your mind,
You owe me no subscription: then let fall
He hath indeed a good outward happiness.
And lose it, life and all, as Arthur did.
Which you are out of, with a gentler spirit,
Ere twice the horses of the sun shall bring
Your most obedient counsellor, yet that dare
Think what a chance thou changest on, but think
Thou art a grave and noble counsellor,
Combine your hearts in one, your realms in one!
But rather lose her to an African;
Ripeness is all: come on.
Should the approach of this wild river break,
By east and west let France and England mount
O worthiest cousin!
Sin from thy lips? O trespass sweetly urged!
Right joyous are we to behold your face,
No, no, my lord.
As to your soul seems good. Give me your hand:
the report of it. Well, Diana, take heed of this
within me.
I may do that I shall be sorry for.
Macbeth shall never vanquish'd be until
over, the trompet sound the retreat. By my hand, I
A sword, whose temper I intend to stain
A very good piece of work, I assure you, and a
I give thee thy liberty, set thee from durance; and,
little: he always loved our sister most; and
Methinks no body should be sad but I:
I play'd the fool, it was my negligence,
I'll bear him no more sticks, but follow thee,
combustion in the state. I missed the meteor once,
With scruples and do set the word itself
Come, come, let's fall in with them.
Father, the duke hath told the truth:
Contemning Rome, he has done all this, and more,
I'll tell thee thou dost evil.
All ready; and therefore, I pray thee, news.
Will bring thy head with sorrow to the ground!
Be call'd your vanquisher.
They may awake their helps to comfort them.
will you dismiss the people?
Meantime receive such welcome at my hand
gardez ma vie, et je vous donnerai deux cents ecus.
Of what we blame him for.
woman when Queen Guinover of Britain was a little
Before I see thee seated in that throne
Bear with him, Brutus; 'tis his fashion.
Very foul.
Yea, what he shall receive of us in duty
Of present dues: the future comes apace:
poor with begging.
Not a dump we; 'tis no time to play now.
Light wenches may prove plagues to men forsworn;
say Amen. What ho! my Lord Achilles!
Demanding of King Henry's life and death,
Enter three FISHERMEN
Pluck their hearts from them. Not to-day, O Lord,
I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the
will be considered.
Prithee, good Griffith, tell me how he died:
Ay, and make't manifest where she has lived,
Still and anon cheer'd up the heavy time,
Nay, I dare not swear it.
Let us to France; like horse-leeches, my boys,
Ay, and that tongue of his that bade the Romans
father brother; and then the prince my brother and
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
Lady, were you her bedfellow last night?
For husbands, fathers and betrothed lovers,
And so have I address'd me. Fortune now
And, that I love the tree from whence thou sprang'st,
The numbers true; and, were the numbering too,
On the ground
Ay, my lord.
upon a book, I shall have good fortune. Go to,
Then she is well, and nothing can be ill:
She did deceive her father, marrying you;
Name it.
Commend me to my wife. I'll return consul;
Enter young YORK, HASTINGS, and the CARDINAL
What comfort, man? how is't with aged Gaunt?
husband is seldom from home; but she hopes there
Not her own sinews. To end a tale of length,
Enter two Keepers, with cross-bows in their hands
had ten times more valour than this roaring devil i'
And be received for the emperor's heir,
By heaven, I had rather coin my heart,
Greater than that.
Pray so; and, for the ordering your affairs,
The book of his good acts, whence men have read
To lie in watch there and to think on him?
Wherein my sword had not impressure made
O, could this kiss be printed in thy hand,
That bear in them one and the self-same tongue,
He's very knowing;
Upon the wild sea banks and waft her love
I wish you well, and so I take my leave.
Thy resolved patient, on thee still rely.
Lies rich in virtue and unmingled.
Exeunt
And I'll withdraw me and my bloody power:
But what's the matter, Clarence?  may I know?
Alas, how is't with you,
You're welcome. What's your will? Give us leave, drawer.
And say 'Long live our Emperor Saturnine!'
That you and I should meet upon such terms
That they devour their reason and scarce think
That thou hast wronged in the time o'erpast;
condition, and what credit I have with the duke.
Wherever sorrow is, relief would be:
Against your sacred person, in God's name,
The chidden billow seems to pelt the clouds;
Your worship in that sense may call him 'man.'
Could have knock'd out his brains, for he had none:
have had thee than thus to want thee: thou, having
A' should not bear it so, a' should eat swords first:
Well done! avoid; no more!
out mine eyes with a ballad-maker's pen and hang me
As heavens forefend!--your ruin; marry her,
Candied with ice, caudle thy morning taste,
The fault will be in the music, cousin, if you be
That there be women do abuse their husbands
Yes, in good sooth, the vice is of a great kindred;
And turn again; and she can weep, sir, weep;
be of what colour it please God. Ha! the prince and
To execute the noble duke at Calais.
I am the last of noble Edward's sons,
And for her sake do I rear up her boy,
And thou shalt have her. Was't not to this end
Troy in our weakness stands, not in her strength.
Swear by her foot, that she may tread out the oath.
Now shall my friend Petruchio do me grace,
And there repose: a turn or two I'll walk,
privilege I have with the parents of the foresaid
Which make such wanton gambols with the wind,
A delicate odour.
And when thou hast given it the emperor,
Ne'er trust me then; for when a world of men
May rather pluck on laughter than revenge;
In this same interlude it doth befall
My duty to you both, on equal love,
For by his fall my honour must keep high.
Most best, most dearest, should in this trice of time
Myself had notice of your conventicles--
How yet resolves the governor of the town?
Exeunt
O heat, dry up my brains! tears seven times salt,
And out of heart, master: all those three I will prove.
I told him gently of our grievances,
Let me go, sir,
To whom I sued for my dear son's life,
The words of Mercury are harsh after the songs of
most cruel death of Pyramus and Thisby.
Thanks, good Montgomery; but we now forget
I'ld not have sold her for it.
Hark! the land bids me tread no more upon't;
Take thou some new infection to thy eye,
Exeunt Attendants
Since I first call'd my brother's father dad.
Enter PUCK
steward? Dost thou think, because thou art
I say, set on.
Go muster men; but, hear you, leave behind
thou wilt quarrel with a man that hath a hair more,
His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
His cuisses on his thighs, gallantly arm'd
A stone by thee.
The one of them contains my picture, prince:
They draw
I have eyes upon him,
Enter PROSPERO in his magic robes, and ARIEL
O, no, no.
thyself execute, to make one among these wooers: if
With ravishing division, to her lute.
ACT I
As it was won with blood, lost be it so!
I pray you do.
I call the gods to witness, I will choose
Did I expose myself, pure for his love,
neck i' the combat, he'll break 't himself in
did thy master part with Madam Julia?
Be wise, and get you home.
Peace, ye fat-kidneyed rascal! what a brawling dost
How this dead queen re-lives?
Derived from the ancient Capilet:
bell-wether, and to betray a she-lamb of a
And I'll be sworn upon't that he loves her;
I, madam.
Let me in safety raise me from my knees
Was a most sainted king: the queen that bore thee,
And they can well on horseback: but this gallant
milliner can so fit his customers with gloves: he
Ay, but she's come to beg, Warwick to give;
It falls right.
I know their complot is to have my life,
The temple-haunting martlet, does approve,
working-days: your grace is too costly to wear
Come hither, Moor:
In taint of our best man. No, make a lottery;
The king, that gave it.
What pace is this that thy tongue keeps?
Ha! 'Against my will I am sent to bid you come in
Here's to your ladyship: and pledge it, madam,
The black prince, sir; alias, the prince of
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
No, noble mistress;'tis fresh morning with me
Kneels
that ever the devil could have made you our delight?
Our comfort in the country. We must find
But let me to my fortune and the caskets.
Why does the world report that Kate doth limp?
O, the difference of man and man!
Let every word weigh heavy of her worth
Our discontented counties do revolt;
Whose influence, like the wreath of radiant fire
Come, come, no longer will I be a fool,
Where died she?
Therefore with frank and with uncurbed plainness
This letter doth make good the friar's words,
Sit fas aut nefas, till I find the stream
Infecting one another, yea, reciprocally--
the university.
Bears a command in't; though thy tackle's torn.
Or hew my way out with a bloody axe.
ne'er been born!
There were none principal; they were all like one
A fever with the absence of her son,
man's apparel? Looks he as freshly as he did the
No, sir; I think the meat wants that I have.
Now, Ajax, hold thine own!
I thank thee, most imperious Agamemnon.
If not a present remedy, at least a patient
Your own handwriting would tell you what I think.
King Edward's fruit, true heir to the English crown.
Yet, know thou, since we have begun to strike,
But something may be done that we will not:
But then I sigh; and, with a piece of scripture,
So shaken as we are, so wan with care,
It will determine one way: fare you well.
Will Caesar speak?
From thence unto the place of execution:
the poet makes a most excellent description of it:
I am perplex'd, and know not what to say.
Unto a dismal and a fatal end:
Men of peace, well encountered.
Or touch of her good person?
As guilty of Duke Humphrey's timeless death.
And the free maids that weave their thread with bones
So swift a pace hath thought that even now
To the ensuing age abhorr'd.' Speak to me, son:
Gramercy! wouldst thou aught with me?
Yea, Richard, when I know; for I protest
And then he sends you word
Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day;
Makes me with thy strength to communicate:
Being most unfit to live. I have made you mad;
Would I had never trod this English earth,
Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance
No treachery; but want of men and money.
BISHOP
Lord Angelo? they have confessed you did.
I would not spend another such a night,
A serpent that will sting thee to the heart.
Ere thou shalt lose for me one drop of blood.
I had rather be a dog, and bay the moon,
Or not at all.
Singing
Your distinction?
Mock not, Enobarbus.
And that their measures are as excellent.
And turn the force of them upon thyself.
Should yield the world this ass! a woman that
Your grace hath still been famed for virtuous;
To see you so attired, sworn, I think,
But what art thou, whose heavy looks foretell
Let me embrace thine age, whose honour cannot
It fell upon a little western flower,
Good aunt, stand up.
The will, the will! we will hear Caesar's will.
By wicked Dionyza.
Enter OCTAVIA with her train
The venomous malice of my swelling heart!
My lord, I cannot.
pavilion on deck, with a curtain before it; PERICLES
[Aside to ARIEL]  My tricksy spirit!
modesty which is so lost.
SCENE IV. The same. A street.
That wait for execution in the morn.
That, ere she sleep, has thrice her prayers said,
Go thou toward home; where I will never come
With horsemen, that make to him on the spur;
Give me my robe, for I will go.
Which I have seen thee careful to observe,
They have ta'en note of us: keep on your way.
To entail him and his heirs unto the crown,
Erroneous vassal! the great King of kings
then, 'tis time to do't.--Hell is murky!--Fie, my
This proffer is absurd and reasonless.
'M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.' Nay, but first, let
She did show favour to the youth in your sight only
And loves not me, be you, good lord, assured
If that the youth will come this way to-morrow,
Why, fare thee well: I will o'erlook thy paper.
My Lord Biron, see him deliver'd o'er:
ends, as they say.
Saints do not move, though grant for prayers' sake.
Grapple your minds to sternage of this navy,
my course of loyalty, though the conflict be sore
'If that you will France win,
Till you have drench'd our steeples, drown'd the cocks!
Or all or lose his hire.
glad of it.
Would I or not: tell him I'll none of it.
Shall Lewis have Blanch, and Blanch those provinces?
The gaudy, blabbing and remorseful day
Exeunt
As I thought, dead, and have in vain said many
If tinkers may have leave to live,
And made him to resign his crown perforce.
He may at pleasure whip, or hang, or torture,
Fear not, my lord: we can contain ourselves,
No, I will weep no more. In such a night
Enter PUCK behind
Ay, my lord; they stay upon your patience.
The people are incensed against him.
No more, perchance, does mine, nor his, nor hers.
The pommel of Caesar's falchion.
'Tis set down so in heaven, but not in earth.
'Twere a perpetual spoil: and till we call'd
Not i' the stocks, fool.
If like a Christian thou hadst truly borne
Noble tribunes,
After he scores, he never pays the score:
Where was this lane?
How's that?
Sir, he hath never fed of the dainties that are bred
Come, let's all take hands,
wonderful. The best courtier of them all, when the
Sirrah, if any ask you for your master,
And once dispatch'd him in an embassy
Not Gloucester's death, nor Hereford's banishment
Increase your services; so seem as if
a hair; and I'll be sworn my pocket was picked. Go
hand? come, tell us your reason: what sayest thou to this?
Exeunt Citizens
received belief, in despite of the teeth of all
And put thy fortune to the arbitrement
Lift up your countenance, as it were the day
My cousin's a fool, and thou art another: I'll wear
But note me, signior.
Yond crickets shall not hear it.
She dying, as it must so be maintain'd,
But by self-danger, you should tread a course
This is not Brutus, friend; but, I assure you,
Did steal behind him as he lay along
SCENE IV. A room in PAGE'S house.
For beauty, wit,
More stronger to direct you than yourself,
Why, man, he doth bestride the narrow world
EPILOGUE
Have in their own land beaten, bobb'd, and thump'd,
Madam, it is, so you stand pleased withal.
Thou makest thy knife keen; but no metal can,
He purposeth to Athens: whither, with what haste
And yet I know him a notorious liar,
DON
Fery well: what is it?
Now, Charmian!
Hermione hath suffer'd death, and that
To PROCULEIUS and the Guard
At Berwick in the north, an't like your grace.
think this was well counterfeited! I pray you, tell
would insinuate with thee but to make thee sigh.
And bids thee study on what fair demands
When our sea-walled garden, the whole land,
She says your worship means to make
Discomfortable cousin! know'st thou not
the moon, I care not.
Enter SUFFOLK
Ay, forsooth: but he is as tall a man of his hands
It is fifteen years since I saw my country: though
So as thou livest in peace, die free from strife:
No certain life achieved by others' death.
you lack not folly to commit them, and have ability
If sympathy of love unite our thoughts.
To BRABANTIO
No.
Men at some time are masters of their fates:
For we will hear, note and believe in heart
To find out right with wrong, it may not be;
And what they weigh, even to the utmost scruple,--
And bear him home for his recovery.
First to my God and next unto your grace.
Are visibly character'd and engraved,
This wine for Lepidus!
Exit
desire the duke to use his good pleasure, and put
And wherefore not ships?
More guarded than his fellows': see it done.
Noble lady!
doth most mistake in her gifts to women.
And is the bride and bridegroom coming home?
Wrong hath but wrong, and blame the due of blame.
I pray for heartily, that it may find
am a villain: and yet you will stand to if; you will
As this which now I draw.
common houses, I know no law: bring them away.
Hadst thou been aught but gossamer, feathers, air,
The noblest hateful love, that e'er I heard of.
Had all your quarters been as safely kept
your voices! Come, Audrey.
Either accept the title thou usurp'st,
By the yea and no, I think the 'oman is a witch
The day that she was missing he was here:
Yet, since love's argument was first on foot,
complaints, and to deliver us from devices
And I expressly am forbid to touch it,
Will you not dance? How come you thus estranged?
Or take his life there: this if she perform,
Return again, and take an oath with thee.
A herald, Kate? O, put me in thy books!
To say 'live, boy:' ne'er thank thy master; live:
savoury, nor no matter in the phrase that might
Graves, yawn and yield your dead,
Follow'd thy heels.
and I shall procure-a you de good guest, de earl,
Did we, my lord?
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent;
Who are surprised withal; but my rejoicing
Your loving uncle, twenty times his worth,
She is a woman, therefore may be woo'd;
To my keen curses; for without my wrong
God bless your grace with health and happy days!
Than this for whom we render'd up this woe.
And Ferdinand, her brother, found a wife
I see two husbands, or mine eyes deceive me.
Whips out his rapier, cries, 'A rat, a rat!'
I have not seen you long: how goes the world?
How know you that?
Lean, rent and beggar'd by the strumpet wind!
ACT I
With this most tender air.
Why, ne'er repent it, if it were done so.
A holy maid hither with me I bring,
Endeavor'd my advancement to the throne:
Will hiss me to my grave: contempt and clamour
Come, sit thou here, most learned justicer;
way to the everlasting bonfire.
my good friends, deserved at the hands of fortune,
Well then, once in my days I'll be a madcap.
And that a strange one too, which did awake me:
Exeunt all but HAMLET and HORATIO
Entreat her not the worse in that I pray
From lovers' food till morrow deep midnight.
While we lie tumbling in the hay.
O, fie, fie, fie!
Enter SIR STEPHEN SCROOP
Well, well, my lords, respect him;
Exeunt
Greater than this.
And, farewell, friends;
I kill'd a man and fear I was descried:
How, with his banners and his well-paid ranks,
They have a leader,
Salisbury?
Well, welcome, welcome! I have seen the time.
Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason
ear can endure to hear. Thou hast appointed
out of the house: prithee, call my master to him.
Where fires thou find'st unraked and hearths unswept,
Not till it leave the rider in the mire.
Is now in England, ransacking the church,
From whence that tender spray did sweetly spring,
And cancel these cold bonds. O Imogen!
I'll run from thee and hide me in the brakes,
To lay on me a cruelty, by taking
I lay unto the grievous charge of others.
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
what is thine?
Without more help, could fight this royal battle!
Into my cousin's hand, Doctor Bellario;
comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical,
Makes me less gracious or thee more fortunate:
We make woe wanton with this fond delay:
Enter SOMERSET
hast feigned him a worthy fellow.
in the hatching,
the fool said, and so say I, and I the fool: well
As to o'er-walk a current roaring loud
[Aside]  Very wisely, puppies!
O, let me have no subject enemies,
You have prevail'd, my lord; if I can do it
I would not for the wealth of all the town
My worthy friends, will you draw near?
Of Hamlet's transformation; so call it,
Conduct me to mine host: we love him highly,
that I can write my name.
False accusation blush and tyranny
For that I am some twelve or fourteen moon-shines
lastly and finally, mine host of the Garter.
So many days my ewes have been with young;
Will come on very slowly. I am sorry,
But this lies all within the will of God,
Fairies use flowers for their charactery.
So worthy a gentleman to be her bridegroom?
come not near Casca; have an eye to Cinna, trust not
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
Letters to Richmond, you shall answer it.
Nurse, give it me; my sword shall soon dispatch it.
Break off thy song, and haste thee quick away:
What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty,
Well, she laments, sir, for it, that it would yearn
As many lines close in the dial's centre;
Exit
with thee.
Ha, ha!
The spirit of the time shall teach me speed.
And in conclusion drove us to seek out
Not a friend, not a friend greet
O, let it not be said: forage, and run
And I, to blame, have held him here too long.
What, no more?
As may appear by Edward's good success,
These accusations and these grievous crimes
Though this a heavenly angel, hell is here.
Enter FLORIZEL and PERDITA
That it may show me what a face I have,
Enter NORFOLK, SUFFOLK, SURREY, and Chamberlain
Exit
From our brother England?
Hear me, dear lady; I have sworn an oath.
How fell you out? say that.
O thou good Kent, how shall I live and work,
They were not born for bondage.
Procure me some access.
'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
Sleeps
Or of a courtier; which could say 'Good morrow,
SCENE II. The same. A  street near the gate.
You hold too heinous a respect of grief.
Who commands them, sir?
I could well forbear't.
man's good wit seconded with the forward child
But to make open proclamation:
Come, come, Antipholus, we dine too late.
So, underneath the belly of their steeds,
Great is the rumor of this dreadful knight,
Struck Caesar on the neck. O you flatterers!
Where is Demetrius? O, how fit a word
Among which number, Cassius, be you one--
I post from love: good lover, let me go.
Well, I am not fair; and therefore I pray the gods
Of his superior, grows to an envious fever
Thrice and once the hedge-pig whined.
Acquaint my mother with my hate to her,
Iron of Naples hid with English gilt,
Fear you not my part of the dialogue.
But had his titles by Tenantius whom
To thee, that hast nor honesty nor grace.
one eye upon my follies, as you hear them unfolded,
It dies, an if it had a thousand lives.
their barks; hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies
I pray thee, Launce, an if thou seest my boy,
Be what they will, I heartily forgive 'em:
Your speech is passion:
Consent upon the order of their fight,
Did not attend him as we rode? I think
And many more of noble fame and worth:
That next by him beneath; so every step,
Yes, faith, will I, Fridays and Saturdays and all.
Now, afore God, 'tis shame such wrongs are borne
County Claudio, when mean you to go to church?
And so is now, or was so very late;
A witch, a quean, an old cozening quean! Have I not
None better in my kingdom. Get you gone,
Exit
Against thy mother aught: leave her to heaven
By what safe means the crown may be recover'd.
But stay, the knights are coming: we will withdraw
Now my soul's palace is become a prison:
My youthful travel therein made me happy,
Drag hence her husband to some secret hole,
Of any trust, virtue, or worth in thee
afflictions, say, that I cannot pleasure such an
therein would have found issue. Hear me profess
Thou keep'st a wife herself, thyself a maid.
Whom this beneath world doth embrace and hug
Thy hand once more; I will not loose again,
Die, damned wretch, the curse of her that bare thee;
with us to the king.
Speak, gentle niece, what stern ungentle hands
one of our souls! He may have mercy upon mine; but
For now I stand as one upon a rock
Unless I flatter with myself too much.
Where is it! taken from us it is: a hundred upon
Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
And that she should love this fellow and refuse me!
And, in that ease, I'll tell thee my disease.
Wilt thou set thy foot o' my neck?
Be sprightly, for you fall 'mongst friends.
provoker of three things.
Go, and be free again, as Suffolk's friend.
So perttaunt-like would I o'ersway his state
If lost, why then a grievous labour won;
SCENE IV. GLOUCESTER's garden.
The one half of my commission; and set down--
Enter another Messenger
Romeo can,
Against your peace. Thee of thy son, Alonso,
Let me sit down. O Juno!
By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make,
Then keep thy vow, sirrah, when thou meetest the fellow.
Well, come, my Kate; we will unto your father's
Enter Musicians
Do so: I'll not be by.
There to remain till the king's further pleasure
Exeunt
The manner of it is, I was taken with the manner.
And, in some taste, is Lepidus but so;
Thy tongue against thy tongue. O, let thy vow
The bawdy wind that kisses all it meets
So Suffolk had thy heavenly company:
follow, follow, follow.
The duke will lay upon him all the honour
To her he hates? and wherefore doth Lysander
I never gave them condign punishment:
To that I call!
Without that title. Romeo, doff thy name,
The fitter for the King of heaven, that hath him.
He was a bachelor then.
It is no shame: the fellow finds his vein,
As his strong sides can volley.
A stone is silent, and offendeth not,
To fall in love with what she fear'd to look on!
Excellent; it hangs like flax on a distaff; and I
Shall I seem crest-fall'n in my father's sight?
Or force of Greekish sinews; you shall do more
the hunter, attends thee at the orchard-end:
This creature's no such thing.
The dominations, royalties and rights
You have begot me, bred me, loved me: I
And here's a pot of good double beer, neighbour:
possitable, if you can carry her your desires
Never came reformation in a flood,
To have command obey'd.
I warrant your honour.
And so the prince obscured his contemplation
A coin that bears the figure of an angel
Nor the prevention of poor Bolingbroke
Not I, till Mutius' bones be buried.
I would not tell you what I would, my lord:
And heaven defend your good souls, that you think
I lodge my wife; I'll go in couples with her;
To answer royally in our defences.
Ay, but when?
O, prepare it!
And drown themselves in riot! Itches, blains,
considered, as too much I cannot, to be more
then? Saint Denis be my speed!--donc votre est
And I'll be gone, sir, and not trouble you.
Lead away.
That turns their countenances.
Myself disposed to sleep.
And with his troops doth march amain to London;
Thou never shouldst love woman like to me.
By all my hopes, most falsely doth he lie.
Enter HASTINGS
And abstinence engenders maladies.
And sat with me on Neptune's yellow sands,
What did I then, but cursed the gentle gusts
My uncle practises more harm to me:
But tell me, keeper, will my nephew come?
How now! is Jack Cade slain?
You have good judgment in horsemanship.
Re-enter Knight
But where's the great Alcides of the field,
And pray the Roman gods confound you both!
O, take the sense, sweet, of my innocence!
ah! whoreson caterpillars! bacon-fed knaves! they
For we no longer are defensible.
Whose chronicle thus writ: 'The man was noble,
Nor I.
Marcus.' 'He killed my father.'
Have given myself the cause.
word in your ear: sir, I say to you, it is thought
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word;
What, wilt thou kneel with me?
Lest zeal, now melted by the windy breath
And make a show of love to proud Duke Humphrey,
By my troth, niece, thou wilt never get thee a
For, look, he smiles, and Caesar doth not change.
Let me see--about Michaelmas next I shall be--
bawd, in way of good service, and art nothing but
Which welcome we'll accept; feast here awhile,
I am sorry for thy much misgovernment.
country, Sicilia, prithee speak no more; whose very
To OPHELIA
Can justly boast of. What's your lordship's pleasure?
Not stingless too.
No money, on my faith, but the gleek;
When you went onward on this ended action,
Of vapours that did seem to strangle him.
But stop no wrinkle in his pilgrimage;
Thou art an old love-monger and speakest skilfully.
Exeunt APEMANTUS and Fool
But fly you must; uncurable discomfit
Hath blister'd her report: she is with child;
Enforce attention like deep harmony:
the Tower, to defend the city from the rebels.
My lord,
virtue seek
Nay, it is petter yet. Give her this letter; for it
confessed and lamented by the king, how
It is familiar,--but at the author's drift;
Ay, be-gar; and de maid is love-a me: my nursh-a
Unless I add, we are honest.
They would not thread the gates. This kind of service
Part, fools!
Infused with a fortitude from heaven,
is flat knavery, to take upon you another man's name.
When such profound respects do pull you on.
Hie you to Egypt again.
O happy torment, when my torturer
Like to his island girt in with the ocean,
Then patiently hear my impatience.
it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know
I scorn you not: it seems that you scorn me.
nothing but secrecy. Let my sheep go: come, good
But how he died God knows, not Henry:
I pardon thee thy life before thou ask it:
With Angelo to-night shall lie
pawn till it be brought you.
I cried to dream again.
That the pursuers took him. At my tent
purses go by the moon and the seven stars, and not
Will he give you the nod?
He heareth not, he stirreth not, he moveth not;
The date is out of such prolixity:
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws,
Shall mark my grave. Commend me to his grace;
As soul and body's severing.
A plague on thee! thou art too bad to curse.
I do believe that these applauses are
their wits with their wives: and then give them
You promised, when you parted with the king,
it harder for our mistress to devise imposition
He had a black mouth that said other of him.
not drowned i' the last rain, ha? What sayest
She would applaud Andronicus' conceit:
Than that which lives to fear: make it your comfort,
Miscarried by my fault, let my old life
My Lord of Oxford, you, Sir William Brandon,
Sirs, you four shall front them in the narrow lane;
to waste: about it.
This will I do, and soon return again.
What's your will, sir? what's your will?
Lord of our presence, Angiers, and of you.
I do beseech ye, if you bear me hard,
Yields up his life unto a world of odds:
As motion and long-during action tires
A servant only, and a gentleman
Out of our question wipe him.
What hast thou found?
Navarre shall be the wonder of the world;
With him is Gratiano gone along;
Came then into my mind; and yet my mind
Good morrow, Catesby; you are early stirring
such enemies again as that fiend Douglas, that
a man. For Bardolph, he is white-livered and
Where stood Belgia, the Netherlands?
That will never be
O Doricles,
Is able with the change to kill and cure.
Lady, you come hither to be married to this count.
out of brothels, thy hand out of plackets, thy pen
And I'll beweep these comforts, worthy senators.
besides the king to effect your suits, here is man
She is my essence, and I leave to be,
Of all be hated, but the most of me!
I barely gratify your love; they failing,
To DIANA
A virtue that was never seen in you.
Exeunt
Good my lord,
Now our sands are almost run;
Enter DOGBERRY and VERGES with the Watch
Which not to read would show the Britons cold:
Flourish. Enter the DUKE of Florence, BERTRAM, PAROLLES, Soldiers, Drum, and Trumpets
Fillet of a fenny snake,
the harder: ch'ill be plain with you.
And thrice again, to make up nine.
For where there is advantage to be given,
Why, art thou mad, old fellow?
SCENE IV. London. The palace.
I'll be with you straight go a little before.
My sword, made weak by my affection, would
How might she tongue me! Yet reason dares her no;
By love, who first did prompt me to inquire;
And in such forms which here were presupposed
for ladies.
But can you affection the 'oman? Let us command to
Though his bark cannot be lost,
A kind heart he hath: a woman would run through
But then AEneas bare a living load,
With spans and inches so diminutive
And now at length they overflow their banks.
I durst not!
Why are you virtuous? why do people love you?
Once more adieu! my father at the road
That hour destroy us?
is called the Reproof Valiant. If again 'it was not
And now, dear maid, be you as free to us.
Their courage with hard labour tame and dull,
That reacheth from the restful English court
Alas, I am a woman, friendless, hopeless!
Kings it makes gods, and meaner creatures kings.
He was not so resolved when last we spake together.
I am from humble, he from honour'd name;
But what, is Catesby gone?
Thy mistress is o' the brothel! Son of sixteen,
One sees more devils than vast hell can hold,
Near to her close and consecrated bower,
To have bless'd mine eyes with her!
Were in wild hurry. Here do we make his friends
Yet thus far, Griffith, give me leave to speak him,
Sings
For me to try how: all I know of it
O Lord, sir, 'tis a deed of policy:
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire:
Be't at her father's.
Rings, jewels, any thing his rage did like.
What do I fear?  myself?  there's none else by:
She is dead too, our sovereign.
Writ in my cousin's hand, stolen from her pocket,
Nay, temperately; your promise.
Wake, my mistress!
For death-like dragons here affright thee hard:
But yet, madam,--
That men must lay their murders on your neck.
Call all your tribes together, praise the gods,
Without the taste of danger and reproof:
My life may last to answer.
Is arming, weeping, cursing, vowing vengeance:
As I have such a heart that both mine ears
And let my counsel sway you in this case.
gain-giving, as would perhaps trouble a woman.
And quite lost their hearts: the nobles hath he fined
Take thou what course thou wilt!
Enter MENENIUS and SICINIUS
And that which would appear offence in us,
Lechery?
With men of courage and with means defendant;
find in their hearts the poor unvirtuous fat knight
Fly, to revenge my death, if I be slain.
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Messala, I have here received letters,
Her enemies' marks upon me. I do love
Nose of Turk and Tartar's lips,
Longer than I prove loyal to your grace
With busy hammers closing rivets up,
[Within]  It seems thou want'st breaking: out upon
Why, so I say.
Is topping your white ewe. Arise, arise;
Lament nor sorrow at; but please your thoughts
How she opposes her against my will
Isidore's Servant	There's the fool hangs on your back already.
Say, Somerville, what says my loving son?
And he wears jewels now of Timon's gift,
And sits as one new-risen from a dream.
Sir Richard, what think you? have you beheld,
Marcus Octavius, Marcus Justeius,
Unkind remembrance! thou and eyeless night
And sent according to command; whiles I
The Lady Anne pass from her coronation?
Before I were forced out!
The higher our opinion, that our stirring
Exeunt CLARENCE, BRAKENBURY, and Guard
there's a hole made in your best coat, Master Ford.
I would to God that the inclusive verge
The very mercy of the law cries out
Saw you the weird sisters?
To have a thousand with red burning spits
Let me embrace thee, sour adversity,
Infuse his breast with magnanimity
watchman; for I cannot see how sleeping should
Than my unpleased eye see your courtesy.
Shake in their fear and with pale policy
briefly yield her; for she must overboard straight.
Go on, go on
Besides, I met Lord Bigot and Lord Salisbury,
That chase thee from thy country and expose
Intending deep suspicion: ghastly looks
I cannot tell.
The many to them longing, have put off
Proteus, the good conceit I hold of thee--
would be glad to receive some instruction from my
Therefore away, and leave her bravely; go:
After 'the duke his father,' with 'the knife,'
I'll show you those in troubles reign,
And set up Lancaster. Why, trow'st thou, Warwick,
Go, take hence that traitor from our sight;
We are coming thither: gracious England hath
You're shallow, madam, in great friends; for the
do these men play?
Flying for succor to his servant Banister,
But I have sent for him to answer this;
With them a bastard of the king's deceased,
Why, how are we censured?
Enlarged him and made a friend of him,
To set my brother Clarence and the king
weapons in your hand, and kill me a red-hipped
But that the dread of something after death,
coziers' catches without any mitigation or remorse
Such creatures as men doubt; but do not stain
Mine honour lives when his dishonour dies,
The duke knows him for no other but a poor officer
The thieves are all scatter'd and possess'd with fear
'Fair sir, you spit on me on Wednesday last;
Being held a foe, he may not have access
With due observance of thy godlike seat,
Exit SUFFOLK
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain?
On mother's flesh which did me breed.
I will, as 'twere a brother of your order,
I knew she would.
But I will have my lord and you again
The freckled cowslip, burnet and green clover,
Hector's great spirit flew: answer me, heavens!
But, as you will not wed, I'll pardon you:
You'll serve another master. I look on you
Drawing a dagger
They hail'd him father to a line of kings:
You guard like men; 'tis well: but, by your leave,
Heaven has an end in all: yet, you that hear me,
'What shall befall the Duke of Somerset?'
Would I not have; but nature should bring forth,
Pray You, fetch him hither.
Thou counterfeit to thy true friend!
thy tabour?
Re-enter ANTIOCHUS
Bruised underneath the yoke of tyranny,
Flourish. Exeunt
But wrong not that wrong with a more contempt.
That is the least, Lucetta, of my fear:
A brave defiance in King Henry's teeth,
The venom of such looks, we fairly hope,
questions, and by them answer.
I say 'your city,' to his wife and mother;
Well, sir, be it as the style shall give us cause to
List, list!
That drive thee from the sportive court, where thou
[Reads]  'Demand of him, of what strength they are
knowest well enough, although thou comest to me,
What being more known grows worse, to smother it.
And he first took exceptions at this badge,
Where now his knowledge must prove ignorance.
I must have your maidenhead taken off, or the common
Whose passions and whose plots have broke their sleep,
Saturn is dominator over mine:
Her children not her husband's!
Outcast of Naples, England's bloody scourge!
Say to the king the knowledge of the broil
Make the hoar leprosy adored, place thieves
And spit upon my Jewish gaberdine,
aloud to him!
In Oxfordshire shalt muster up thy friends.
Enter the Soothsayer
Aside
The heaven sets spies upon us, will not have
Pard to the hind, or stepdame to her son,'
Why say you so? looks he not for supply?
These are their tutors: bid them use them well.
Peace, villain, peace!'--even thus he rates
Why, sir, my wife is not young.
The only son of your great enemy.
Sirrah, Falstaff and the rest of the thieves are at
Exposing it--but, O, the harder heart!
When I shall ask the banns and when be married.
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys;
And now do I bethink me, so it is,--
Nay, I must hold you.
Nor shall you do mine ear that violence,
She once being loof'd,
That, when the greatest stroke of fortune falls,
And when good will is show'd, though't come
That this my mother's son was none of his;
Hail to thee, worthy Timon, and to all
I prithee, speak; we will not trust our eyes
BISHOP
Let him that makes but trifles of his eyes
I prithee now, lead the way without any more
Tell her, my love, more noble than the world,
And hides a sword from hilts unto the point
hats and most courteous feathers, which bow the head
Commotion in the winds! frights, changes, horrors,
Did not offend, nor were not worthy blame,
Go to the feast, revel and domineer,
The wife I chose? there can be no evasion
Where money is, and I no question make
'Tis not needed yet.
With candle-wasters; bring him yet to me,
That might have mercy on the fault thou gavest him;
I am merrier to die than thou art to live.
Form such another? This is the very top,
you not. I'll not be far from you: do you find
It is a creature that I teach to fight,
Whene'er we come to our account.
'Slid, I'll after him again and beat him.
To my proceedings, if, with pure heart's love,
Read, and declare the meaning.
The better part of my affections would
Sick at the heart.
But beggary and poor looks.
Nay, Eleanor, then must I chide outright:
Wade to the market-place in Frenchmen's blood,
You were ever good at sudden commendations,
Get him to say his prayers, good Sir Toby, get him to pray.
I do believe it
His purse is empty already; all's golden words are spent.
A hundred thousand crowns; and not demands,
A' bears the third part of the world, man; see'st
We'll once more hear Orsino's embassy.
Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, when
Soldier, why wearest thou that glove in thy cap?
She may, I think, bestow't on any man.
Out, tawny coats! out, scarlet hypocrite!
Whether our daughter were legitimate,
for you all; you have horses for yourselves:
Let them obey that know not how to rule;
Which lay nice manners by, I put you to
Well met here.
To none but thee; no more, but when to thee.
And lose advantage, which doth ever cool
breath of him in a divided draught, is the readiest
Pray, draw near.
Enter BEATRICE
did it to minister occasion to these gentlemen,
E'en so.
O, then, beware;
Now let hot AEtna cool in Sicily,
impiety has made a feast of thee.
Why does my blood thus muster to my heart,
For which, I hope, thou felt'st I was displeased.
Deep scars to save thy life; even for the blood
Speak, of all loves! I swoon almost with fear.
And from the common'st creature pluck a glove,
Friendly together: so through Lud's-town march:
I bless the time
Here is himself, marr'd, as you see, with traitors.
Have we ramm'd up our gates against the world.
That show, contain and nourish all the world:
Your daughter here the princes left for dead:
Those enemies of Timon's and mine own
Come, sister. Shepherdess, look on him better,
Come, enter with us. Ladies, you deserve
For nothing can seem foul to those that win.
Wherefore hast thou accused him all this while?
Re-enter DOLABELLA
dislikes, to flatter them for their love.
That he would please to alter the king's course,
Pointing to the Attendant who carries off LEPIDUS
O, sir, Lucentio slipp'd me like his greyhound,
better three hours too soon than a minute too late.
No, faith, young Troilus; doff thy harness, youth;
Which here you urge to prove us enemies,
Antonio shall become bound; well.
Nay, he is your brother by the surer side,
I dare no longer stay.
He hath the jewel of my life in hold,
to the court? for, by my fay, I cannot reason.
And work in their shirt too; as myself, for example,
Madam, we'll tell tales.
DON
Some way of common trade, where subjects' feet
list of a country's fashion: we are the makers of
How shall I dote on her with more advice,
chamberlain; for thou variest no more from picking
On payment of a hundred thousand crowns,
And bury all, which yet distinctly ranges,
Be general leprosy! Breath infect breath,
kill him whom you have recovered, desire it not.
Come from the farthest Steppe of India?
Nay,
Is she sole child to the king?
Would create soldiers, make our women fight,
Has said enough.
Where 'tis predominant; and 'tis powerful, think it,
Besides, all French and France exclaims on thee,
There is no force in the decrees of Venice.
Exit Provost
Thou hast cast away thyself, being like thyself;
even now into my hand by an under-skinker, one that
ACT I
Could draw to part them, was stout Tybalt slain.
In private, then.
SCENE II. Another room in the same.
Defy him by the Lord of Westmoreland.
Goodness and he fill up one monument!
O, wonderful!
The valiant heart is not whipt out of his trade.
How! let me see:
Such have but a shadow's bliss:
For she is sweeter than perfume itself
When shall we see again?
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath,
My lord?
That you shall think the devil is come from hell.
Nay Warwick, single out some other chase;
Blind is his love and best befits the dark.
And yet, between my soul's desire and me--
E'er since I can remember.
Safe, Antony; Brutus is safe enough:
merit, did justly put on the vouch of very malice itself?
That come to gather money for their corn.
For his return.
There saw you labouring for him. What was't
Your daughter spent in Genoa, as I heard, in one
Poor I was slain when Bassianus died.
I  would 'twere bed-time, Hal, and all well.
There must we bring him; and myself have play'd
The second, William of Hatfield, and the third,
man; any strange beast there makes a man:
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
Exeunt
'Twas merry when
Deliver'd letters, spite of intermission,
been cozened and beaten too. If it should come to
From forth day's path and Titan's fiery wheels:
What time o' day is't, Apemantus?
And make poor England weep in streams of blood!
Will think me speaking, though I swear to silence;
Husband!
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
Speaking my fancy: Signior Benedick,
Who call'd me traitor, mountaineer, and swore
To VIOLA
But I remember, when the fight was done,
Will we acquaint with all that we intend;
[Within]  Francis!
And frown upon 's.
Alarum'd by his sentinel, the wolf,
It follows in his thought that I am he.
and so shall Trinculo.
For he would needs be virtuous: that good fellow,
May hourly fall upon ye!
What news, AEneas, from the field to-day?
As true we are as flesh and blood can be:
Come with me, fool, come.
With whom the Kentishmen will willingly rise:
Say it, Othello.
Enforced us to this execution?
Enter Boy
We leave you now with better company.
The drug he gave me, which he said was precious
You, in the right of Lady Blanch your wife,
We cannot hold mortality's strong hand:
Appear like mice; and yond tall anchoring bark,
In what we can, to bridle and suppress
My Lord of Suffolk, Buckingham, and York,
'Tis thought the king is dead; we will not stay.
From which even here I slip my weary neck,
Go hence in debt: and therefore, like a cipher,
Now, Bagot, freely speak thy mind;
Good honest men! Thou draw'st a counterfeit
What says your highness to my just demand?
This day shall be a love-day, Tamora.
You go so much backward when you fight.
Why, man, why?
And, to be brief, my practise so prevail'd,
One way or other, she is for a king;
That had, give't these fellows
Yet gives he not till judgment guide his bounty,
ACT I
High-witted Tamora to gloze with all:
Go to them, with this bonnet in thy hand;
And turn her out to who will take her in:
We then can do't at land.
Wherein thyself shalt highly be employ'd.
Four feasts are toward.
again, entreat him;
We do not know.
To Athens will I bear my folly back
It may be I shall otherwise bethink me.
Most like a soldier, order'd honourably.
Since it is bankrupt of his majesty.
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
Ay, but I know--
As friendship wears at feasts, keep with Bohemia
Except mine own name: that some whirlwind bear
Aside
Be it so, then:
One word in secret.
Here's an overweening rogue!
me. Wenches, I'll buy for you both. Pedlar, let's
mightst not lose the dues of rejoicing, by being
In France, amongst a fickle wavering nation:
Away with the dotard! to the gaol with him!
She's an adulteress.
Whom thou didst banish; and--which more may
Hamlet comes back: what would you undertake,
To whom my father is not all unknown;
Well, more gold: what then?
Most like this dreadful night,
I do beweep to many simple gulls
Hast thou the flower there? Welcome, wanderer.
sooner persuade Harry of England than a general
Whom ne'er the word of 'No' woman heard speak,
Slice, I say! pauca, pauca: slice! that's my humour.
Though that her jesses were my dear heartstrings,
And dip their napkins in his sacred blood,
O, pity, God, this miserable age!
The king hath happily received, Macbeth,
Where is the foolish knave I sent before?
And though thou now confess thou didst but jest,
Throws a stone at him
'Twill be a good way; and to-morrow the wrestling is.
Were't not affection chains thy tender days
What ruin happen'd in revenge of him,
with malice and malice forced with wit turn him to?
But never taint my love. I cannot say 'whore:'
Go, Biondello, bid your mistress come to me.
Heard ye not what an humble suppliant
What 'unjust'!
one that no persuasion can do good upon.
For here he doth demand to have repaid
That yet we sleep, we dream. Do not you think
How shall that faith return again to earth,
says the fiend, 'and run.' Well, my conscience,
In my behalf; my reputation stain'd
Thersites is a fool to serve such a fool, and
Is this the Athenian minion, whom the world
Both now and ever bless her! 'tis a girl,
Thou know'st we work by wit, and not by witchcraft;
me turn i' the wheel.
Exeunt
Enter POLONIUS
May stand in number, though in reckoning none,
Fading in music: that the comparison
Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of, yea or no?
Not sleeping, to engross his idle body,
Monmouth caps; which, your majesty know, to this
Then let me go and hinder not my course
See thyself, devil!
From him that has most cause to grieve it should be,
But I have that within which passeth show;
Something too wildly and my father's precepts
Beseech you, sir, were you present at this relation?
To be i' the field, and ask 'what news?' of me!
Thou speak'st it well. Go, father, with thy son.
For that he has,
Why, by making him uncapable of Othello's place;
Printing their proud hoofs i' the receiving earth;
I'll strike thee dead. Put up thy sword betime;
This is the door.
now than an eight-year-old horse. The tartness
SCENE III. Another room In the castle.
As with foul incest to abuse your soul;
And tell me truly what thou think'st of him.
Before a sleeping giant.' Tell him so.
In this so never-needed help, yet do not
Sir, we have a chest beneath the hatches, caulked
jack-an-ape to Anne Page.
Sir, Octavius is already come to Rome.
But where is Kate? I stay too long from her:
To the Elephant.
Following the mirror of all Christian kings,
And wheresoever we went, like Juno's swans,
Why, so you are, my thrice renowned liege.
knot of his scarf, and the practise in the chape of
And call the noblest to the audience.
And sometime rail thou like Demetrius;
Re-enter LUCIUS, QUINTUS, MARTIUS and MUTIUS, with their swords bloody
A doubtful warrant of immediate death;
Why, am I dead? do I not breathe a man?
And mark my greeting well; for what I speak
If that shepherd be not in hand-fast, let him fly:
lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his quillets,
I think it freely; and betimes in the morning I will
Our dance of custom round about the oak
Enter LODOVICO, DESDEMONA, and Attendants
For fear I surfeit.
They dare not show their husbands; their best conscience
You mock me, sir.
O, here he is.
he take leave, and presently after him.
Or else committ'st thy knaveries wilfully.
They are in a trunk,
I know thee well enough; thy name is Gloucester:
Well, sir, in brief, the gown is not for me.
That looks not heavily and full of fear.
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
His beastly mind to us, he hath a court
Exit
In sooth he might; then, if he were my brother's,
Ay, marry, was it, mussel-shell: what would you with her?
O, forgive me my sins!
come, shall we about it?
May we do so?
We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar;
Nor keep his princely heart from Richard's hand.
By Cheshu, he is an ass, as in the world: I will
Since thou dost deign to woo her little worth
a Dutchman today, a Frenchman to-morrow, or in the
cure of the thing you wot of, unless they kept very
O'erflows the measure: those his goodly eyes,
king, my master, hath sent for me; to whose feeling
Let them be whipped through every market-town, till
Or stole it, rather.
cost, and you encounter it.
You know there wants no junkets at the feast.
touch, a quick venue of wit! snip, snap, quick and
Sweet lords, entreat her hear me but a word.
All the whole synod of them!
Is true and false; and what he with his oath
to his legs again?
If that be right which Warwick says is right,
And observation strange, my meaner ministers
me, like an old cuckold, with horns on his head, and
Which heaven hath forbid the Ottomites?
Father, be quiet; he shall stay my leisure.
Be not disturb'd with my infirmity:
The mightiest of thy greatest enemies,
When corn was given them gratis, you repined;
Yet cannot hold this visible shape, my knave.
What's the matter?
Flourish. Re-enter GLOUCESTER, with KING OF FRANCE, BURGUNDY, and Attendants
Enter MONTANO, GRATIANO, IAGO, and others
A god on earth thou art.
comest thou to beard me in Denmark? What, my young
By wondering how thou took'st it.
Words sweetly placed and modestly directed.
humour on me; that is the very note of it.
devil knew not what he did when he made man
And on all sides the authority allow'd;
He will be found a dangerous protector.
Stay, Edward.
No more of him; for I will deal with him
tickled you othergates than he did.
Then will I lay the serving-creature's dagger on
Let me unkiss the oath 'twixt thee and me;
Nay, he nods at us, as who should say, I'll be even
As one unworthy all the former favours
One feast, one house, one mutual happiness.
Why, how now, sons and brother! at a strife?
I have a suit which you must not deny me;
Nay, but, fellow, fellow,--
SCENE II. Before Gloucester's castle.
Enter KATHARINA
Sure, you have some hideous matter to deliver, when
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
If they'll do neither, we will come to them,
Why, does he talk of him?
Murdering impossibility, to make
The king hath yielded unto thy demand:
Ay, now my sovereign speaketh like himself;
Tell me if you love Warwick more than me?
My spirit can no longer bear these harms.
Good morrow to the sun. Hail, thou fair heaven!
And that thy summer bred us no increase,
We'll pass the business privately and well.
'Who chooseth me shall gain what many men desire;'
Enter KING HENRY VI with a supplication, and the QUEEN with SUFFOLK'S head, BUCKINGHAM and Lord SAY
What's here? one dead, or drunk? See, doth he breathe?
As doth the lion in the Capitol,
At Holmedon met,
What, have you writ that letter to my sister?
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny,
Condemn'd to die for treason, but no traitor;
for tittles? titles; for thyself? me. Thus,
We have none such, sir.
I have on Angelo imposed the office;
To seek new friends and stranger companies.
[Standing forth]	My lord?
Thou little valiant, great in villany!
The wronged heirs of York do pray for thee
But throw her forth to beasts and birds of prey:
the Garter.
O my good lord, the world is but a word:
Now puts the drowsy and neglected act
I am very glad on't.
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
till some little time hath qualified the heat of
Not sick, my lord, unless it be in mind;
I knew you not: what news with you so early?
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
To excel the golden age.
You shall have aid.
Say, man, were these thy words?
That's a good deed. If thou mayest discern by that
I'll follow and outstare him.
have with me?
My ransom is this frail and worthless trunk,
When the sweet wind did gently kiss the trees
Hang him, Jack! Come, we'll in here; tarry for the
O'er-prized all popular rate, in my false brother
practises he hath persecuted time with hope, and
confirm my speech.
And fall on my side so, against your will.
This rest might yet have balm'd thy broken senses,
What, ho, Barnardine!
Here shall he see No enemy
Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
I will not speak with him; say I am sick:
Flourish. Enter KING EDWARD IV sick, QUEEN  ELIZABETH, DORSET, RIVERS, HASTINGS, BUCKINGHAM, GREY, and others
Indeed I weigh not you, and therefore light.
of; which imports to the kingdom so much
And many limits of the charge set down
Into an honest house, our story says.
with the horse upon her, how he beat me because
ANTIPHOLUS
In shape profane.
Thanks, good Egeus: what's the news with thee?
Image of pride, why should I hold my peace?
The same.
Can hold the mortise? What shall we hear of this?
Alarum. Excursions. Enter JOAN LA PUCELLE
wars is not kept: if you would take the pains but to
First know thou, I begot him on the empress.
whom I am bound to.
Thy father! O villain! he is a sailmaker in Bergamo.
Flourish. Alarum. A retreat is sounded. Flourish.  Enter, from one side, COMINIUS with the Romans; from the other side, MARCIUS, with his arm in a scarf
sufficient. Three thousand ducats; I think I may
Blow me into abhorring! rather make
But pardon me; I do not in position
So his mind cankers. I will plague them all,
How like the prodigal doth she return,
To make a false one.
[Aside]  O sweet Anne Page!
Welcome, Mark Antony.
Hang ye, gorbellied knaves, are ye undone? No, ye
you writ to Diana in behalf of the Count Rousillon?
Than without candle may go dark to bed--
And I do with an eye of love requite her.
a coranto? My very walk should be a jig; I would not
'Tis they have put him on the old man's death,
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
Exit
Upon thy wedding-day?
Lay out, lay out.
return: let there be covenants drawn between's: my
I'll repent, and that suddenly, while I am in some
Ay, that's my boy! thy father hath full oft
To come! O, give me cord, or knife, or poison,
A thousand thanks, and pray 'em take their pleasures.
O' horseback, ye cuckoo; but afoot he will not budge a foot.
Each man to his stool, with that spur as he would to
Very sweet and contagious, i' faith.
Upon offenders, hath exceeded law,
Denmark's a prison.
But float upon a wild and violent sea
How, how, Lychorida!
Well, now.
And but one word with one of us? couple it with
O, when the last account 'twixt heaven and earth
The imperial jointress to this warlike state,
But now thy beauty is proposed my fee,
Enter AUFIDIUS and his Lieutenant
is not show his face.
foul knave uncuckolded: therefore, dear Isis, keep
Exeunt DON PEDRO, CLAUDIO, and LEONATO
Obscures the show of evil? In religion,
keep counsel; they'll tell all.
And were I strong, I would not shun their fury:
'Twas very faintly he said 'Rise;' dismiss'd me
My most honour'd lord,
When all that is within him does condemn
But all in vain; they had no heart to fight,
The life of Tybalt.
a very filthy rogue.
I should have lost the worth of it in gold.
Peace! Here comes my sister, reading: stand aside.
Would they strip from us; being valued thus:
These deeds must not be thought
Sirrah, what's thy name?
Let him cry 'Praise and glory on his head!'
But let the ruffian Boreas once enrage
Thanks, good friend Escalus, for thy much goodness:
As worthy cause I have to fear I am--
And wake the emperor and his lovely bride
Once more to hew thy target from thy brawn,
God shield I should disturb devotion!
Yes, a dozen; and as many to the vantage as would
His folly, Helena, is no fault of mine.
Religiously they ask a sacrifice:
And, sir, it is no little thing to make
ANTIPHOLUS
Your majesty entendre bettre que moi.
The grappling vigour and rough frown of war
This good man,--few of you deserve that title,--
Farewell all physic: and what follows then?
Fair lovely maid, once more good day to thee.
And the poor beetle, that we tread upon,
Kisses them. IRAS falls and dies
This is that banish'd haughty Montague,
Yea, Troilus? O, well fought, my youngest brother!
This is a man, old, wrinkled, faded, wither'd,
doublet and hose and leaves off his wit!
She may do more, sir, than denying that:
And wherefore are you gentle, strong and valiant?
Some nobler token I have kept apart
My life and services.
Becomes his captain's captain: and ambition,
Hadst thou, like us from our first swath, proceeded
This is not hunters' language: he that strikes
Hath stuff'd these hollow vessels with their power,
Exeunt
Such pity as my rapier's point affords.
three and twenty. Go thy way, Troilus, go thy way!
Fleeter than arrows, bullets, wind, thought, swifter things.
Thy condemnation and thy death.
Fly to the duke:
That tide will stay me longer than I should.
To kings that fear their subjects' treachery?
like myself in this, let him be whipped that first
Which the base vulgar do call three.
This gentleman is happily arrived,
From Egypt drive her all-disgraced friend,
Not her that chides, sir, at any hand, I pray.
Masters o' the people,
And if your grace mark every circumstance,
No, Valentine.
Sir, there's a barge put off from Mytilene,
To be the pillage of a giglot wench:'
Thy head, all indirectly, gave direction:
But that to your sufficiency as your Worth is able,
Bocchus, the king of Libya; Archelaus,
Look, where the holy legate comes apace,
And what's untimely done. O, come away!
These and these conveyances of our blood
As chaste as unsunn'd snow. O, all the devils!
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
And his affections dark as Erebus:
I speak from certainties. Nay, more,
And the wolf behowls the moon;
Wherein I seem unnatural: desire not
That profit us. What, ho! slave! Caliban!
What hands are here? ha! they pluck out mine eyes.
SONG
Earth's increase, foison plenty,
A lass unparallel'd. Downy windows, close;
And fashion'd thee that instrument of ill,
The cup of their deservings. O, see, see!
I put it in the pocket of my gown.
Subject his coronet to his crown and bend
Helicanus, thou
[Within]  Nay, good my lord,--
Enter, with drum and colours, EDMUND, REGAN, Gentlemen, and Soldiers.
Dance. Then exeunt all except DON JOHN, BORACHIO, and CLAUDIO
She loved me well deliver'd it to me.
Whose ruin you have sought, that to her laws
a tailor to thee and shall make thee a new doublet
And leave her on such slight conditions.
Be comfort to my age! Here is the gold;
are sick. There is a man haunts the forest, that
Married my daughter there! for, coming thence,
This shall be told our lovers, Lord AEneas;
To furnish thee to Belmont, to fair Portia.
To the last syllable of recorded time,
Why should a dog, a horse, a rat, have life,
I am the son of Henry the Fifth,
May hang upon your hardness: therefore hear us.
Thy element's below! Where is this daughter?
The lady speaks in Welsh
Just as you left them; all prisoners, sir,
to present the prince's own person: if you meet the
O poor Orlando, thou art overthrown!
Speak like a subject, proud ambitious York!
Thrice to thine and thrice to mine
To speak and purpose not; since what I well intend,
Take leave and part; for you must part forthwith.
Methought thy very gait did prophesy
Fortune forbid my outside have not charm'd her!
I will do a greater thing than that, upon your
Sir, I cannot.
That one day bloom'd and fruitful were the next.
Mordake the Earl of Fife, and eldest son
So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows,
Full of dear guiltiness; and therefore this:
with clean hands.
Dost thou know her by my gazing on her, and yet
Officious, and not valiant, you have shamed me
Few come within the compass of my curse,--
SCENE VI. Forres. The palace.
[Aside]  I'll write to my lord she's dead. O Imogen,
All's hush'd as midnight yet.
Now, sir, to you.
I humbly thank your royal majesty.
ribbon, glass, pomander, brooch, table-book, ballad,
Stand where the torch may not discover us.
without, I know he will choose it. I will do any
My recompense is thanks, that's all;
Enter CLEOPATRA, CHARMIAN, IRAS, and MARDIAN
Be rough and razorable; she that--from whom?
Fair sir, you are well o'erta'en
My name is call'd Vincentio; my dwelling Pisa;
The time shall not be many hours of age
argument, Achilles.
Try fortune with him in a single fight.
Out, some light horsemen, and peruse their wings.
The name of valour.
Why, fare thee well:
Re-enter PUCK and DEMETRIUS
sweet lord! How dost thou, good lord?' This might
Who wrought with them, and all things else that might
Still betters what is done. When you speak, sweet.
Hark you, the king is coming, and I must speak with
occasion to kiss. Very good orators, when they are
And when they bear me say 'It shall be so
When all aloud the wind doth blow
While they do tend the profit of the land.
Bids them good morrow with a modest smile
Than wish a snow in May's new-fangled mirth;
I come to bring him sleep. 'Tis such as you,
Met him in boroughs, cities, villages,
Haply when they have judged me fast asleep,
Kneel down before him, hang upon his gown:
inclination, after his undressed, unpolished,
Most ponderous and substantial things!
horse's health, a boy's love, or a whore's oath.
beaten myself into all the colours of the rainbow;
speak a good word to Mistress Anne Page for my
Exit MOTH
If he miscarry, farewell wars in France.
And truly yielded you. You're very welcome.
Advanced their eyelids, lifted up their noses
Say, how is that?
And that hath dazzled my reason's light;
honourable friend.
SCENE I. A churchyard.
Thus Joan la Pucelle hath perform'd her word.
Ere he by sickness had been visited:
All! I know not what you call all; but if I fought
starve: I will fetch my gold and have our two
No countermand; no such example have we:
Traffic confound thee, if the gods will not!
Peace!
A juggling trick,--to be secretly open.
He kneels
Till the tree die!
Not more resembles that sweet rosy lad
Exeunt
Then the charm is firm and good.
stay behind
No, not to stay the grinding of the axe,
The justice and the truth o' the question carries
A subtle traitor needs no sophister.
Forego the easier.
He shall unbolt the gates.
give me sight of her; not only bought many presents
And young affection gapes to be his heir;
My father, and a king.
Though in the trade of war I have slain men,
O passing traitor, perjured and unjust!
My holy sir, none better knows than you
I cannot speak to her, yet she urged conference.
Acquaint my daughter no further with any thing you
1. A lively flourish of Trumpets.
If he had done or said any thing amiss, he desired
not by Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature
Until the white rose that I wear be dyed
I take it, your own business calls on you
Have lost the wager. Boldness be my friend!
Theirs for the earth's increase, mine for my sorrows?
flattery, not out of my promise.
and on at pleasure.
This cannot anger him: 'twould anger him
That best know how to rule and how to reign,
As seal to this indenture of my love,
By day and night to attend him carefully,
Of what a monarchy you are the head:
Once more I'll read the ode that I have writ.
No, he hath simply the best wit of any handicraft
When living blood doth in these temples beat,
That will be excellent. I'll go and buy them vizards.
Shall I bring thee on the way?
Whom in this conflict I unwares have kill'd.
Be advised.
Open your purse, that the money and the matter may
As happy prologues to the swelling act
To make this good?
Enter DENNIS
This sensible warm motion to become
Upon my faith and honour.
Heavens forgive it!
turned heathen, a very renegado; for there is no
Run to your houses, fall upon your knees,
I kill'd the slave that was a-hanging thee.
unpitifully, methought.
brains! for,--here he comes,--one of thy kin has a
SCENE III. France. KING LEWIS XI's palace.
I would thou didst itch from head to foot and I had
Ready, when time shall prompt them, to make road.
are come to search the house. Shall I let them in?
Hold out my horse, and I will first be there.
Nor hold the sceptre in his childish fist,
Leave all the rest to me.
What art thou that dost grumble there i' the straw?
Your hand, my Perdita: so turtles pair,
Enter GOWER
'Faith, the cry goes that you shall marry her.
A thousand pounds a year for pure respect!
To see him shine so brisk and smell so sweet
For since the birth of Cain, the first male child,
Well, go thy ways, old lad; for thou shalt ha't.
She is something before her time deliver'd.
Join'd with Aufidius, leads a power 'gainst Rome,
For, I protest, we are well fortified
Because thy flinty heart, more hard than they,
To greet the king. So he thrived,
To weep with them that weep doth ease some deal;
Leave, gentle wax; and, manners, blame us not:
Cupid is a knavish lad,
Enter DESDEMONA, CASSIO, and EMILIA
I grieve to hear what torments you endured,
March sadly after; grace my mournings here;
Leave! an you take leave till to-morrow morning,--
I blame not her, she could say little less;
This kindness will I show.
Here let them end it; and God defend the right!
Must lie and fester.
die a bachelor, I did not think I should live till I
I thank you; you shall hear from me anon:
As you have done; that's what I can; induced
A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping,
Well run, Thisbe.
And say there is much kindness in the Jew.
To their benumbed wills, resist the same,
My lord, we were sent for.
With an aspect more favourable. Good my lords,
Fell by our servants, by those men we loved most;
'Thank God;' a good answer. Art rich?
Atalanta's better part,
The meat is cold because you come not home;
My words would bandy her to my sweet love,
Took some displeasure at him; at least he judged so:
And make the cowards stand aloof at bay:
In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen:
Exeunt
Were brought me of your loss and his depart.
For fear and doting. Friends, be gone: you shall
If I speak true! if hollowly, invert
Thus yields the cedar to the axe's edge,
Of such possessions and so high esteem,
Enter CADE
the old play, that every one may pare his nails with
My peace we will begin. And, Caius Lucius,
My mind hath been as big as one of yours,
The needful bits and curbs to headstrong weeds,
This is some monster of the isle with four legs, who
Tell us the manner of it, gentle Casca.
The heart of woman is! O Brutus,
Is this well spoken?
You are most bound to the king,
And then grace us in the disgrace of death;
Where were you born, friend?
her husband, will be from home. Alas! the sweet
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
What a Herod of Jewry is this! O wicked
May they perceive's intent! He will require them,
So, slave; hence!
Fly, fly, my lord; there is no tarrying here.
And may, through all the world: 'tis yours; and we,
I vow by heaven these eyes shall never close.
Try what my credit can in Venice do:
I often came where I did hear of her, but cannot find her.
Exit EDGAR
Boldly 'not guilty;' the imposition clear'd
I, that am rudely stamp'd, and want love's majesty
That life, a very rebel to my will,
To think that Caesar bears such rebel blood
I do not desire you to please me; I do desire you to
Why, is not Oxford here another anchor?
First, let me tell you whom you have condemn'd:
Here's a few flowers; but 'bout midnight, more:
invited you all. I tell him we shall stay here at
Exeunt
In God's name, speak: when is the royal day?
His lady banish'd, and a limb lopp'd off.
'As false as Cressid.'
love to take thy father for mine: so wouldst thou,
That Edward is escaped from your brother,
To back thy quarrels, whatsoe'er they be.
Ajax employ'd plucks down Achilles' plumes.
And brought from thence the Thracian fatal steeds,
Come on, you thick lipp'd slave, I'll bear you hence;
Re-enter Bawd
To signify unto his majesty
And I for Ganymede.
To him that did but yesterday suspire,
Steals ere we can effect them. You remember
God save your majesty! my royal cousin, teach you
Quit their own part, and in obsequious fondness
Of many thousand kisses the poor last
Shall understand it presently.
Ay, that's the first thing that we have to do;
released and delivered over to the king her father,
Thy goodly armour thus hath cost thy life.
Enter ALBANY
No note at all of our being absent hence;
He means to recompense the pains you take
Supply his life, or that which can command it.
Death, at whose name I oft have been afear'd,
Whirring me from my friends.
His grace is entering. Nay, you must not freeze;
as fresh as when we were at Tunis at the marriage
Fills him with faults; makes him run through all the sins:
pray you, sir, are you a courtier?
against such a good time, when I might ha' shown
She gave me for my pains a world of sighs:
He is the only man of Italy.
Would scour these English hence? Hear'st thou of them?
Two stars keep not their motion in one sphere;
Myself your loyal servant, or endure
Yet your good will
Farewell, good Master Oliver: not,--
And bid him speak of patience;
My noble brother!
There cannot be those numberless offences
No, Titus, no; the emperor needs her not,
shall be honourable. I'll procure this fat rogue a
Have batter'd me like roaring cannon-shot,
How now, Malvolio!
Fair encounter
Can counsel and speak comfort to that grief
virginity and devours up all the fry it finds.
Entirely honour: I would not be delay'd.
You ne'er oppress'd me with a mother's groan,
How now, sir! What's your name? and what's the matter?
For here it sleeps, and does no hired harm.
Investing lank-lean; cheeks and war-worn coats
Withdraws
Were damnable.
Who should attend on him? He makes up the file
For riches strew'd herself even in the streets;
no greater forfeit to the law than Angelo who hath
Whate'er it be, be thou still like thyself,
Scripture? The Scripture says 'Adam digged:'
They did amongst the troops of armed men
All other devils that suggest by treasons
Splits what it speaks: the wild disguise hath almost
But most it is presumption in us when
Crack nature's moulds, an germens spill at once,
cow short horns;' but to a cow too curst he sends none.
The heir of his reward;
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
Enter TRANIO brave, and BIONDELLO
In troth, I think I should; and undo't when I had
have not in abundance?
My life, sir, in any case: not that I am afraid to
Not sound?
This seeming brow of justice, did he win
have it to buy gingerbread: hold, there is the very
For what advancement may I hope from thee
Cry  'Havoc,' and let slip the dogs of war;
Though in some part enforced to digress;
Your provost knows the place where he abides
Bewray'd the faintness of my master's heart.
'Tis very grievous to be thought upon.
The matter?
Exeunt Bawd, Pandar, and BOULT
With many children by you: if, in the course
Amen!
Ay, what of that? it was my will and grant;
Still, still, far wide!
It will make you melancholy, Monsieur Jaques.
And if on earth he do not mean it, then
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
ancient amities; divisions in state, menaces and
with't, keep it close: home, home, the next way.
How now, philosopher!
Or let us lose it. We do here pronounce,
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
the lion and the spots of thy kindred were jurors on
great preparation.
Fall all together.
Enter POMPEY
My body up to shame.
to borrow of your masters, they approach sadly, and
No doubt he will requite it. This is noted,
O thou sweet king-killer, and dear divorce
Gives him a worthy pass. Here comes my clog.
And say 'Thrice-welcome, drowned Viola!'
Admit me Chorus to this history;
In my good brother's fault: I know not why
Within the book and volume of my brain,
Whereby we stand opposed by such means
And hast a thing within thee called conscience,
be his heir, for what he hath taken away from thy
My arm is sore; best play with Mardian.
And bear the name and port of gentlemen?
Well, better wits have worn plain statute-caps.
I'll answer that.
Which way to be prevented, if to be;
Alas, poor fool, how have they baffled thee!
What is the matter, uncle? speak;
And little bless'd with the soft phrase of peace:
There be some sports are painful, and their labour
I would not be cured, youth.
And yet we have but trivial argument,
[Aside]  Why, I were best to cut my left hand off
Exeunt Murderers
shovel-boards, that cost me two shilling and two
And writers say, as the most forward bud
At his head a grass-green turf,
Never make known what you have seen to-night.
That nature pranks her in attracts my soul.
Leap in with me into this angry flood,
To see him every hour; to sit and draw
He that helps him take all my outward worth.
Hard fate! he might have died in war.
Who, like a boar too savage, doth root up
Think him a great way fool, solely a coward;
That he may bless this bay with his tall ship,
Where is the Dauphin? Come, come from behind;
The proudest peer in the realm shall not wear a head
Fair weather after you!
Fall Greeks; fail fame; honour or go or stay;
tear a cat in, to make all split.
Her father and myself, lawful espials,
Gloucester, see here the tainture of thy nest.
Laus Deo, bene intelligo.
toy in hand here, sir: nay, pray be covered.
poem unlimited: Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
Besides, upon the very siege of justice
Well, sir.
The Douglas and the Hotspur both together
To suffer all alike. That he should dream,
Only to show his pomp as well in France
As answering to the weight: would I might never
That die unmarried, ere they can behold
He means in flesh.
Welcome, brave earl, into our territories:
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
All unavoided is the doom of destiny.
I could be merry now. Hubert, I love thee;
What might we do to make the girl forget
Live in thy shame, but die not shame with thee!
How ugly didst thou in Cordelia show!
What news abroad?
Enter Keeper
have no more of this; let's to our affairs.--Forgive
I will be known your advocate: marry, yet
I do not well know, my lord. If it shall please
If thou dost slander her and torture me,
She is protectress of her honour too:
If He, which is the top of judgment, should
Let's take the instant by the forward top;
Down, down I come; like glistering Phaethon,
Ay, sir.
Could make him the receiver of; which he took,
Exit
For that it made my imprisonment a pleasure;
Exit
Lucilius' Servant	Ay, and I think
For she's not froward, but modest as the dove;
Lady,
both empty; the brain the heavier for being too
My sight was ever thick; regard Titinius,
I am dying, Egypt, dying; only
They say, our French lack language to deny,
Here, say we drink this standing-bowl of wine to him.
And friends with Caesar.
in the letter. 'Cast thy humble slough,' says she;
And now prepare your throats. Lavinia, come,
May we not see him?
No; I will to Ireland to his majesty.
cannot, give thanks you have lived so long, and make
Importune him once more to go, my lord;
As though she bid me stay by her a week:
Bring forth the gallant, let us hear him speak.
Mark Antony, shall we give sign of battle?
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows,
Eleven, sir.
This way, my lord.
In both your armies there is many a soul
Behold, this is the happy wedding torch
There will the lovely Roman ladies troop:
This is the old man still.
And utter ruin of the house of York.
No more shall be the neighbour to my counsel:
me merry. I was as virtuously given as a gentleman
Exeunt Antipholus of Syracuse and Dromio of Syracuse to the Priory
No ceremony that to great ones 'longs,
'Tis thought your deer does hold you at a bay.
I am content; so the maiden cities you talk of may
Re-enter TYBALT
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in earth,
A kingdom for it was too small a bound;
It is religion to be thus forsworn,
Whose tenors and particular effects
While it is hot, I'll put it to the issue.
In this which you accuse her.
Out of my sight!
And of an earthy cold? Mark her eyes!
My supreme crown of grief! and those repeated
And, let your father make her the assurance,
Ah, that same pale hard-hearted wench, that Rosaline.
to continue now, thou varlet; thou art to continue.
Our sacks shall be a mean to sack the city,
My liege!
Excellent wench, say I.
Fare ye well at once: my bosom is full of kindness,
me wherefore.
Being the right idea of your father,
signior, walk aside with me: I have studied eight
Dame Eleanor gives gold to bring the witch:
Your master will be dead ere you return;
Thou darest not say so, villain, for thy life.
If they deny him justice: twenty merchants,
By bud of nobler race: this is an art
Cannot do more in England than the Nevils:
Faith, niece, you tax Signior Benedick too much;
Small curs are not regarded when they grin;
That's even as fair as--at hand, quoth the
This is the pearl that pleased your empress' eye,
for't, he will supply us easily; if he covetously
And gentlemen of blood and quality.
Wherever in your sightless substances
'When griping grief the heart doth wound,
Dead? or asleep? I see no blood, no wound.
Foh! one may smell in such a will most rank,
Fulvia perchance is angry; or, who knows
From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
For the which, with songs of woe,
three neat-herds, three swine-herds, that have made
[Aside to CLARENCE] God forbid that! for he'll
To justify this worthy nobleman,
O that I thought it could be in a woman--
His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide
Either heaven with lightning strike the
And Tybalt calls; and then on Romeo cries,
Love's feeling is more soft and sensible
Could ever hear by tale or history,
Knowing aforehand of our merriment,
But keep that countenance still. My husband's hand!
To answer thy best pleasure; be't to fly,
Sure, sure, such carping is not commendable.
Exeunt ABHORSON and POMPEY
Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.
Why, this is lunatics! this is mad as a mad dog!
From our free person she should be confined,
I am not worthy yet to wear: I shall, assuredly.
That quaffing and drinking will undo you: I heard
Marry, thou oughtest not to let thy horse wear a
I took an oath that he should quietly reign.
And I, to make thee mad, do mock thee thus.
of that quirk.
What says his majesty?
Nor to his service no such joy on earth.
Detest my baseness. I, that with my sword
Although they wear their faces to the bent
As man's ingratitude;
Our bending author hath pursued the story,
Which daily she was bound to proffer: this
And am I last that knows it? O, thou think'st
Thou art welcome, Caius.
Command an argosy to stem the waves.
I would not follow him then.
He's irremoveable,
Exeunt some with Lord SAY
Exit, with the body
Son of Polixenes, with his princess, she
Good sir, give me good fortune.
They're busy within; you were best knock louder.
Obey you, love you, and most honour you.
Sir, I will.
Desire the earl to see me in my tent:
And found the blessedness of being little:
might it not?
Give me your arm:
I've hope to live, and am prepared to die.
What, Hal! how now, mad wag! what a devil dost thou
I'll join mine eldest daughter and my joy
Safe out of fortune's shot; and sits aloft,
When I was stamp'd; some coiner with his tools
And you the blacker devil!
Now, if you love me, stay.
A fall off of a tree.
Come, come, Nerissa; for I long to see
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
For I must think of that which company
The name of Antony; it was divided
There is no tongue hath power to curse him right.
And give me swift transportance to those fields
To yield thee so much profit. Let not conscience,
Legitimate Edgar, I must have your land:
shall I search the market?
And know what 'tis to pity and be pitied,
Shall we hear from you, Catesby, ere we sleep?
Ho! who is within there?
Who marks the waxing tide grow wave by wave,
In leaden contemplation have found out
You, you, sirrah, where's my daughter?
letter: but let thine inherit first; for, I
And brought with armed men back to Messina.
Yield to his humour, smooth and speak him fair,
Wherein you dress'd yourself? hath it slept since?
O my lord!
Whatever fortune stays him from his word:
SCENE II. Florence. The Widow's house.
That in these several places of the city
Enter JULIET
Is the argument of Time. Of this allow,
Reflect on Rome as Titan's rays on earth,
youth, strength, skill and wrath can furnish man withal.
Three proper young men, of excellent growth and presence.
He counsels a divorce; a loss of her
With all the spots o' the world tax'd and debosh'd;
Enter three or four Citizens
believe: 'tis my slowness that I do not; for I know
It was a handkerchief, an antique token
Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather
She makes it strange; but she would be best pleased
Ere they shall make us weep: we'll see 'em starve
top and instantly break with you of it.
Why? For filling a bottle with a tundish. I would
Both him and all his brothers unto reason.
And, Clarence, now then it is more than needful
Lucilius' Servant	Five thousand crowns, my lord.
Why, art not thou the man?
Through this house each fairy stray.
and water-rats, water-thieves and land-thieves, I
Therefore your best appointment make with speed;
Were it not pity that this goodly boy
Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodness
And that which you did swear to keep for me,
And, gentle Puck, take this transformed scalp
Thou hast redeem'd thy lost opinion,
Sell when you can: you are not for all markets:
Enter YORK and BUCKINGHAM with their Guard and break in
Like a poor bark, of sails and tackling reft,
For making up this peace!' Thou know'st, great son,
[Within]  Francis!
I must needs wake her. Madam, madam, madam!
I beg cold comfort; and you are so strait
him their examination.
And with the same to act controlling laws.
I train'd thy brethren to that guileful hole
yesterday; for the other has half, by the entreaty
churlish as the bear, slow as the elephant: a man
'Tis certain, every man that dies ill, the ill upon
For you, my noble Lord of Lancaster,
And for we think the eagle-winged pride
Do, then, dear heart; for heaven shall hear our prayers;
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
Of whom, even to the state's best health, I have
Gallus, go you along.
Even of yourself, lord cardinal.
Of this fair mansion, master of my servants,
but now promise, Kate, you will endeavour for your
You have for dignities; to the mere undoing
So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape;
I pluck this red rose with young Somerset
Farewell; you're angry.
Not I.
wilt thou do this?
park with the rational hind Costard: she deserves well.
Or know not what we are.
Exeunt
Whose smoke, like incense, doth perfume the sky.
heard that men of few words are the best men; and
Like water from ye, never found again
Which makes the silver rivers drown their shores,
There lives or dies, true to King Richard's throne,
Come, come, we'll prompt you.
O, then, dear saint, let lips do what hands do;
Their saucy sweetness that do coin heaven's image
The gods are witness,
They shoot
You great benefactors, sprinkle our society with
all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery.
Say, have I thy consent that they shall die?
How! Was it we? we loved him but, like beasts
O insupportable and touching loss!
Where is he?
By laboursome petition, and at last
Where be these warders, that they wait not here?
By heaven, I rather would have been his hangman.
with what poor judgment he hath now cast her off
Sir, it is;
As little prince, having so great a title
may pass with a reproof the easier, sith you
sister. But mark how heavily this befell to the
Are glad and fain by flight to save themselves.
entirely drunk. We have very oft awaked him, as if
woman is a dish for the gods, if the devil dress her
That worthied him, got praises of the king
No, on the barren mountains let him starve;
Exeunt
vein of him.
Unreal mockery, hence!
ACT IV
Doth Lear walk thus? speak thus? Where are his eyes?
O, flatter me; for love delights in praises.
For never two such kingdoms did contend
As love is full of unbefitting strains,
Enter the DAUPHIN, ORLEANS, RAMBURES, and others
Why then defy each other and pell-mell
your kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see
Sirrah, hast thou a knife? come, let me see it.
Fool, I'll requite it in the highest degree: I
And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me
And brought your prisoner to your palace gate.
Will she not forth?
For villany is not without such rheum;
Enter TITUS, above
If I had play'd the desk or table-book,
Good sooth, I care not for you.
A crutch, a crutch! why call you for a sword?
The sisters' vows, the hours that we have spent,
Her heart is but o'ercharged; she will recover:
Exit
I left behind an ancient substitute:
hither: here he does but repair it. I know he will
is stabbing.
March'd through the city to the palace gates.
they not malefactors?
What counts harsh fortune casts upon my face;
saved, your honour untainted, the poor Mariana
The Lady Cressida.
As much as I deserve! Why, that's the lady:
My earnest-gaping sight of thy land's view,
You are one of those
my lieutenant Peto meet me at town's end.
Ay, husband: can he that deny?
Enter MACDUFF
Three thousand ducats, due unto the Jew,
Such were our faults, or then we thought them none.
Which all the while ran blood, great Caesar fell.
And would not put my reputation now
instance? Tongue, I must put you into a
With scarfs and fans and double change of bravery,
Share with thy birthright! Love all, trust a few,
A worthy fool! Motley's the only wear.
Through lovers' brains, and then they dream of love;
there's laying on, take't off who will, as they say:
Is dead.
Madam, though Venus govern your desires,
How say you, Signior Gremio?
That sits in heart-grief and uneasiness
But omne bene, say I; being of an old father's mind,
His man with scissors nicks him like a fool,
And cannot now accept; to grace him only
In personal suit to make me his lieutenant,
Upon their woes whom fortune captivates!
Which else were shame, that then necessity
And dull unfeeling barren ignorance
clap him and hiss him, according as he pleased and
For him, poor soul. The proudest of you all
She is fair; and so is Julia that I love--
LOVELL seems to stay
Made glory base and sovereignty a slave,
Ay, with all my heart,
He could so quickly cut the Ionian sea,
I mean the bishop, did require a respite;
Ay, my good lord.
Yet am I arm'd against the worst can happen;
We John Cade, so termed of our supposed father,--
There were none fine but Adam, Ralph, and Gregory;
Enter the QUEEN and two Ladies
Call you this gamut? tut, I like it not:
Hark, how hard he fetches breath. Search his pockets.
Alas, this is a child, a silly dwarf!
When you depart from him, but, soft and low,
And duty in his service perishing.
Be those with swords?
That took away the match from Isabel,
So stood the state when Henry the Sixth
Have more than merited. All friends shall taste
His uncle Siward and the good Macduff:
To give obedience where 'tis truly owed:
[Aside]  Pray to the devils; the gods have given us over.
At careful nursing. Go thy ways, good mariner:
They swell, and grow as terrible as storms.
Therefore, O Antony, stay not by his side:
He digs and sings
When you have vow'd, you must not speak with men
And, at his pleasure, will resign my place.
Red as 'twould burn Rome; and his injury
As I do know the consul's worthiness,
Then goes he to the length of all his arm;
Would set me free from this unhallow'd place,
villains march wide betwixt the legs, as if they had
God will revenge it. But come, let us in,
More like a king, more kingly in my thoughts:
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
My tears are now prevailing orators.
Whispers
I would kiss before I spoke.
To use between your strangeness and his pride,
Peace, my lord; hear, hear--
What means do you make to him?
'Yea,' quoth he, 'dost thou fall upon thy face?
Ah, Gloucester, teach me to forget myself!
And seek to effect it to my uttermost.
My blood is mingled with the crime of lust:
You know, none so well, none so well as you, of my
remembrance, be at accord.
I'll gild the faces of the grooms withal;
Become a deluge, overflow'd and drown'd;
Desired my Cressid in right great exchange,
Is our best having.
Enter MACBETH, BANQUO, ROSS, and ANGUS
Ay, though it look like thee.
We have power in ourselves to do it, but it is a
If I might die within this hour, I have lived
I was not angry since I came to France
Sit you down, father; rest you
[Aside]  Ah, sweet Anne Page!
Here comes my lord.
And now he writes to heaven for his redress:
And you recount your sorrows to a stone.
And she again wants nothing, to name want,
Love they to live that love and honour have.
Enter CHARLES, BURGUNDY, ALENCON, BASTARD OF ORLEANS, REIGNIER, JOAN LA PUCELLE, and forces
The one by the other.
Before the Frenchman speak a word of it.
Because here is a man accused of treason:
What's dearest to the world! Full many a lady
Caesar and Antony have ever won
Yet am I thankful: if my heart were great,
[Within]  Francis!
worthier than a village, so is the forehead of a
Take heed, take heed, for such die miserable.
Re-enter TITINIUS with MESSALA
countermines: by Cheshu, I think a' will plough up
should marry twenty husbands. If he would despise me
With tender Juliet match'd, is now not fair.
Look you bring me in the names of some six or seven,
More ready to cry out 'Who knows what follows?'
Things that are known alike; which are not wholesome
With Roman swords, and my report was once
are he, you are he.
ACT IV
By one whom she esteemeth as his friend.
Good Mistress Mary Accost,--
Come hissing in upon 'em,--
Pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillage
men's liking: and yet he would not swear; praised
Do swarm upon him--from the western isles
unweighed behavior hath this Flemish drunkard
third--borough.
And to his image, which methought did promise
Exeunt
Enough to stifle such a villain up.
And never stays to greet him; 'Ay' quoth Jaques,
For me, the gold of France did not seduce;
From whom hast thou this great commission, France,
And the third hour of drowsy morning name.
knowest my old ward; here I lay and thus I bore my
He after honour hunts, I after love:
Be sure of it; give me the ocular proof:
That bate and beat and will not be obedient.
To let you know my thoughts.
Exeunt
And I with my long nails will dig thee pignuts;
What shall become of me?
Though I swore I leaped from the window of the citadel.
Is it mine, or Valentine's praise,
Not from his mouth,
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern!
Therefore this maxim out of love I teach:
Since maids, in modesty, say 'no' to that
He came in thunder; his celestial breath
Draws us a profit from all things we see;
That this same paper brings you.
There is enough written upon this earth
O, once tell true, tell true, even for my sake!
ANTIPHOLUS
That's sure of death without it, at once pluck out
Well, sir, there rest in your foolery. Is there any
But that the scambling and unquiet time
My heart is ten times lighter than my looks.
There is, there is.
Exit
Which makes it five and twenty. Still in motion
I am not worthy of the wealth I owe,
Much less to take occasion from their mouths
Embrace and love this man.
Glance at my credit with Hippolyta,
Ay; is it not a language I speak?
wickedness: old folks, you know, have discretion,
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of
The ousel cock so black of hue,
I lie; for they pray continually to their saint, the
Adieu, uncle.
Thou counterfeit'st most lively.
I hazarded the loss of whom I loved.
We will yet do well.
Thou hadst, great king, a subject who
Would not the beggar then forget himself?
Thou ever strong upon the stronger side!
How now, Master Brook! Master Brook, the matter
Your tributary drops belong to woe,
And well she can persuade.
You kill me to deny it. Farewell.
poor old woman. That same knave Ford, her husband,
Will not proclaim against her maiden loss,
Upon advice, hath drawn my love from her;
Which must approve thee honest: 'If Pisanio
That was the way to make his godhead wax,
In mouths of wisest censure: what's the matter,
My prayers on the adverse party fight;
Come, lady, come; you have lost the heart of
They should not laugh if I could reach them, nor
Were met together to rehearse a play
You have prevailed: I will depart in quiet,
And, friends, disperse yourselves; but all remember
As you love Rosalind, meet:
Which to the high top-gallant of my joy
Even in the birth of our own labouring breath:
so plentiful an excrement?
Will make me sleep again: and then, in dreaming,
Most honour'd Timon,
From Ireland thus comes York to claim his right,
That the malevolence of fortune nothing
Her father is no better than an earl,
Because she brought stone jugs and no seal'd quarts:
she thanks you a thousand times; and she gives you
However these disturbers of our peace
The pendent world; or to be worse than worst
understanding, diest; or, to wit I kill thee, make
evident to any formal capacity; there is no
But if thy flight lay toward the raging sea,
Out of your grace, devise, ordain, impose
therefore, back to Rome, and prepare for your
policy than in malice, even so as one would beat his
As those should do that had deserved his hate,
The general of our horse thou art; and we,
do thou stand in some by-room, while I question my
The world hath noted, and your name is great
shillings and sixpence' and 'You are welcome,' with
Found his deserts: how innocent I was
Ay, and mine,
But yet my caution was more pertinent
Exeunt
Hood my unmann'd blood, bating in my cheeks,
Let him come in.
A goodly day not to keep house, with such
Now, in thy likeness, one more fool appear!
Here sheathe thy sword, I'll pardon thee my death:
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
It seldom visits sorrow; when it doth,
Disparage not the faith thou dost not know,
Their mercy at the price of one fair word;
cripple. But this reasoning is not in the fashion to
Who? God?
No, no; 'tis all men's office to speak patience
A plague upon it, it is in Gloucestershire;
As he was coming from this churchyard side.
He's ta'en.
Disfigure not his slop.
But what said Jaques?
Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA
Good masters, take it not unkindly, pray,
And pitch our evils there? O, fie, fie, fie!
Still so constant, lord.
As well of glib and slippery creatures as
Whereof the ewe not bites, and you whose pastime
Into my story: say 'Thus, mine enemy fell,
To love her for her mother's sake, that loved him,
married un garcon, a boy; un paysan, by gar, a boy;
Exeunt
And others more, going to seek the grave
Now let it work. Mischief, thou art afoot,
I trust ere long to choke thee with thine own
Tu-who, a merry note,
Be not afraid, though you do see me weapon'd;
he would cudgel you.
Thou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm
To be inclined my way!
And to my brother turn my blushing cheeks.
yare, yare! Take in the topsail. Tend to the
You're kindly welcome.
That thou no more shalt see this knack, as never
Die of this folly!
Pierce every sense about thee! Old fond eyes,
By which the world's best garden be achieved,
O here's a wit of cheveril, that stretches from an
Ay, and an ox too: both the proofs are extant.
SCENE II. A room in CORIOLANUS'S house.
With their finest palate: and trust to me, Ulysses,
There's more to be consider'd; but we'll even
The perfume and suppliance of a minute; No more.
Give him allowance for the better man;
I dare be sworn you were:
Though you respect not aught your servant doth,
Your majesty's good thoughts away from me!
And take the present horror from the time,
'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away gain, from me to
But that, it seems, he little purposeth,
Did utter forth a voice. Yes, thou must die:
I say, bid come before us Angelo.
To beg of Hob and Dick, that do appear,
What's he approacheth boldly to our presence?
That make her good? O, let her brother live!
I thank you for your pains: spend this for me.
Or die in the adventure, be my helps,
Such dear concernings hide? who would do so?
For being a bawd, for being a bawd.
Dies
by the lesser legs: if any be Trinculo's legs,
Two equal men. The queen shall be acquainted
My resolution and my hands I'll trust;
Monsieur Parolles, my lord calls for you.
Ay, crook-back, here I stand to answer thee,
Feign'd Fortune to be throned: the base o' the mount
If we prevail, their heads shall pay for it:
And yet died too! I, in mine own woe charm'd,
Of Alcibiades the approaches wild,
Or Somerset or York, all's one to me.
Where ever Englishman durst set his foot.
And with some sweet oblivious antidote
And, in the publication, make no strain,
You were best go in.
Gaoler, take him to thy custody.
Well, sir; my mistress is the sweetest lady--Lord,
O that ever I was born!
fine and recovery, he will never, I think, in the
See, Lucius, see how much she makes of thee:
Whipp'd and tormented and--God-den, good fellow.
arithmetic! Why the devil came you between us? I
Mark what I say. Attend me where I wheel:
An echo with the clamour of thy drum,
Well then, confess and live.
That gold must round engirt these brows of mine,
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
What likelihood of his amendment, lords?
For heaven sake, Hubert, let me not be bound!
Whereof what's past is prologue, what to come
would have sworn his disposition would have gone to
Yet, ere we put ourselves in arms, dispatch we
With whispering and most guilty diligence,
To number Ave-Maries on his beads;
I had rather than forty shillings I had my Book of
Sir, by your leave.
Nay, what hope
semblance of a maid,--that you have discovered
Well, do not then; for since you love me not,
There with fantastic garlands did she come
Shall he dwindle, peak and pine:
The town is empty; on the brow o' the sea
Whom envy hath immured within your walls!
Hush, my gentle neighbours!
As who would say, in Rome no justice were.
great P's. It is, in contempt of question, her hand.
I remember thine eyes well enough. Dost thou squiny
Why, that's my dainty Ariel! I shall miss thee:
Until his very downfall in the sea:
examine the wars of Pompey the Great, you shall
I would they had not come between us.
And that you would have me to do?
Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge;
Have with thee, Pole. Farewell, ambitious Richard.
All to you. Lights, more lights!
That ever yet they heard.
To attend your highness' pleasure.
As by discharge of their artillery,
quotidian of love upon him.
He whined and roar'd away your victory,
Ay, sir, I thank God.
I am thinking what I shall say I have provided for
It bears an angry tenor: pardon me:
On their departure most of all show evil:
For, since the cardinal fell, that title's lost:
As if he pluck'd up kisses by the roots
Thou hast made me giddy
I must up-fill this osier cage of ours
There's fresher air, my lord,
Respecting this our marriage with the dowager,
As I had title in thy noble husband!
should fall
Might stand peerless by this slaughter.
It is not fit your lordship should undertake every
Come not thou near me: and when that time comes,
Too indirect for long continuance.
Good Michael, look you to the guard to-night:
having the world for your labour, tis a wrong in your
And those eyes, the break of day,
is sooner caught than the pestilence, and the taker
Justice, most sacred duke, against the abbess!
Gramercies, lad, go forward; this contents:
A lullaby too rough: I never saw
Save you, sir.
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Exeunt severally
Unto Bianca, fair and virtuous.
To the dulling of my spirits: sit down, and rest.
More bitterly could I expostulate,
Old John of Gaunt, time-honour'd Lancaster,
If at home, sir,
Should be so tyrannous and rough in proof!
Exeunt above DUCHESS and HUME, guarded
SCENE IV. Padua. Before BAPTISTA'S house.
In russet yeas and honest kersey noes:
My daughter! O, my daughter!
Together, have one dust, yet reverence,
Are tricks of custom, but in a man that's just
Nay, that's past praying for: I have peppered two
Ah, Richard, with the eyes of heavy mind
Whose men and dames so jetted and adorn'd,
Hast thou, spirit,
I am unworthy for her schoolmaster.
Thine own particular wrongs and stop those maims
'Mong boys, grooms, and lackeys. But their pleasures
That, in the course of justice, none of us
As dangerous as the rest. Your time's expired:
That minces virtue, and does shake the head
afflicts us, the object of our misery, is as an
No man knows whither.
The world is not thy friend nor the world's law;
Found truth in all but one: I, in twelve thousand, none.
How parted he with thee? and when shalt thou see
And hope to joy is little less in joy
But to command, to cheque, to o'erbear such
If in which time expired, he not return,
Which makes her both the heart and place
are ever thrust to the wall: therefore I will push
My faculties nor person, yet will be
were dry, I am able to fill it with my tears; if the
And floating straight, obedient to the stream,
Exit PORTIA
And see them ready 'gainst their mother comes.
aqua-vitae or some other hot infusion; then, raw as
From out the fiery portal of the east,
But quick and in mine arms. Come, take your flowers:
Enter BLUNT
Bull-bearing Milo his addition yield
Brother of England, how may we content
For the great swing and rudeness of his poise,
What poor an instrument
Look by and by to have thy sons with thee.
Assurance bless your thoughts!
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall,
I thought it princely charity to grieve them.
Costly apparel, tents, and canopies,
Brought up as best becomes a gentlewoman:
No, faith, lords and great men will not let me; if
As when brave Gaunt, thy father, and myself
Met in the vale of Andren.
Either consent to pay this sum for me
Vile worm, thou wast o'erlook'd even in thy birth.
The bound of honour, or in act or will
A toy, my liege, a toy: your grace needs not fear it.
But, soft, I pray you: what, did Caesar swound?
My woes end likewise with the evening sun.
And the like tender of our love we make,
So gain'd the sur-addition Leonatus;
They say he is a very man per se,
yourself know how easy it is to be such an offender.
and much fool may you find in you, even to the
We'll hear him what he says. Whence are you?
'Imprimis: She can fetch and carry.' Why, a horse
It is a sleepy language and thou speak'st
Exit
you something to know it.
Where nothing lives but crosses, cares and grief.
The government of patience! You have won:
Hath made thee handless in thy father's sight?
The senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased
And like rich hangings in a homely house,
Than what I know, yet shall the oracle
And hale him hither.
Then to sea, boys, and let her go hang!
beaten way of friendship, what make you at Elsinore?
They presently amend.
And when they talk of him, they shake their heads
Moist it again, and frame some feeling line
With Cain go wander through shades of night,
For know, my love, as easy mayest thou fall
For them to play upon, entreats you pity him:
stocks: and what think you he hath confessed?
That wrens make prey where eagles dare not perch:
By the luckiest stars in heaven: and, would your honour
This morning are they fled away and gone;
Are our carnations and streak'd gillyvors,
Present approach.
To use our utmost  studies in your service.
Exeunt
to their charge.
Some mumble-news, some trencher-knight, some Dick,
Might so have tempted him as you have done,
Impossible be strange attempts to those
Pronounce dishonour of her; by my life,
Ducdame, ducdame, ducdame:
Warwick and Talbot, Salisbury and Gloucester,
I am glad on 't. What a fearful night is this!
Dost thou speak like a king? Do thou stand for me,
From our faults, as faults from seeming, free!
shouldst feel
Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite;
And draw you into madness? think of it:
I never saw so huge a billow, sir,
She was here even now; she haunts me in every place.
'Tis more than we deserve, or I expect.
proclamation; but he made a groan at it, and swore
for the nonce, to immask our noted outward garments.
Shines o'er with civil swords: Sextus Pompeius
Of Edward king, the third of that descent:
From princes into pages: all men's honours
Whose heart within his bosom is.
Their tenor good, I trust.
All our bills.
Via, goodman Dull! thou hast spoken no word all this while.
I fear the emperor means no good to us.
I pray thee, over-name them; and as thou namest
How angel-like he sings!
Nay, do not wonder at it: you are made
certain: 'tis dangerous to take a cold, to sleep, to
Where is that damned villain Tranio,
therefore he scorns to say his prayers, lest a'
Patience awhile, good Cassio. Come, come;
are to be laid upon the children: therefore, I
Was sent to by my brother; one Lucio
But with my breath I can revive it, boy.
If thou hast slain Lysander in his sleep,
To other friends; and so farewell, Sir Michael.
a-coming will speak their mind in some other sort.
Why, get you gone: who is't that hinders you?
Quite from their fixure! O, when degree is shaked,
I'll bring you to your ship and so to Naples,
Those men you talk of came into my mind.
Son, on my life,
Unsafe the while, that we
But since she did neglect her looking-glass
Exit
Retires
to seek you both.
Since every worth in show commends itself.
Pray, let us go.
Were I the ghost that walk'd, I'ld bid you mark
Sebastian of Messaline, whom I know you have heard
But to the next highway, and there I left him.
Your lord and master did well to make his
If I return, I shall be post indeed,
Pray now, your news?
Those heavenly eyes, that look into these faults,
Never, but once.
Alack, 'tis he: why, he was met even now
That never knew but better, is some burden:
He raised the house with loud and coward cries.
But you at your sick service had a prince.
I pray thee, chide not; she whom I love now
With trial-fire touch me his finger-end:
a Peg-a-Ramsey, and 'Three merry men be we.' Am not
Therefore, my lord protector, give consent
Absolute queen.
He cried almost to roaring; and he wept
Where's my fool, ho? I think the world's asleep.
A night is but small breath and little pause
A man of their infirmity.
Sing, and disperse 'em, if thou canst: leave working.
but as there is no more plenty in it, it goes much
I had it from my father.
Re-enter Provost
ye for a young prince, i' faith.
Exit ARIEL
Never so truly happy, my good Cromwell.
And burns me up with flames that tears would quench.
Earlier too, sir, if now I be one.
If this should blast in proof. Soft! let me see:
O, pardon me that I descend so low,
If love have touch'd you, nought remains but so,
For sweet discourses in our time to come.
Was I, to take this drunkard for a god
Did I not bid thee meet me in the park,
Wife, children, servants, all
I do profess
And so I say, I'll cut the causes off,
That I disdain: but for these other gawds,
I may disjoin my hand, but not my faith.
O villains, Chiron and Demetrius!
What news with you, sir?
Assure thyself my love is buried.
That we shall hardly in our ages see
And chase the native beauty from his cheek
A creature, that did bear the shape of man,
My vouch against you, and my place i' the state,
Do not muse at me, my most worthy friends,
Long since we were resolved of your truth,
O, let me entreat thee cease. Give me thy hand,
How now! a conduit, girl? what, still in tears?
Such outward things dwell not in my desires:
Enter JAQUES DE BOYS
Why, farewell, Portia. We must die, Messala:
To holy altars.
Of sallies and retires, of trenches, tents,
it grows, yet youth, the more it is wasted the
Touches us not with pity.
And may that soldier a mere recreant prove,
If this fond Love were not a blinded god?
The air hath starved the roses in her cheeks
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
talkest thou nothing but of ladies?
Have any resting for her true king's queen.
O Desdemona! away! away! away!
And therefore is Love said to be a child,
Sirrah, tell my gentlewoman I would speak with her;
As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that
That when he speaks not like a citizen,
Would not this ill do well? Well, well, I see
And God keep him out of my sight when the dance is
Bid me farewell.
The ladies, her attendants of her chamber,
How not your own desire?
There's some conceit or other likes him well,
Most shallow man! thou worms-meat, in respect of a
Swift as a shadow, short as any dream;
Come, down into the boat.
To fill the mouth of deep defiance up
Have taken sanctuary: the tender prince
that may not sully the chariness of our honesty. O,
Do you not hear him? You mar our labour: keep your
caduceus, if ye take not that little, little less
Of the duke only, 'gainst all other voice.
Well, call forth, call forth.
Can in this book of beauty read 'I love,'
It appears, by his small light of discretion, that
Ay, and briefly.
name, sirrah?
Rehearse that once more.
Yet I can make my audit up, that all
This is a very scurvy tune to sing at a man's
Ay, amen!
Reads
As I will watch the aim, or to find both
day is hot, and the weather, and the wars, and the
This peace is nothing, but to rust iron, increase
Re-enter SEYTON
Ay, mother; but I would not have it so.
yard, and the tailor with his last, the fisher with
But, in defence, by mercy, 'tis most just.
hereafter, I pray you, mock at 'em; that is all.
myself notice of my brother's purpose herein and
If heaven have any grievous plague in store
Yet, Warwick, in despite of all mischance,
Master, master! news, old news, and such news as
Lost he his other eye?
All causes shall give way: I am in blood
First, the fair reverence of your highness curbs me
One that goes with him: I love him for his sake;
Leaps into the grave
That is the chain, sir, which you had of me.
And say 'This man's a flatterer?' if one be,
Exeunt
The honourable blood of Lancaster,
And he shall spend mine honour with his shame,
But, for the seventh cause; how did you find the
you? You will lose your reputation.
Then comes my fit again: I had else been perfect,
Have we not lost most part of all the towns,
these princely suitors that are already come?
I am sorry now that I did draw on him.
What sense had I of her stol'n hours of lust?
O, musicians, because my heart itself plays 'My
No.
themselves;
this! Why, my lord of York commends the plot and the
Have I the aspic in my lips? Dost fall?
Says it will come to the full. Mark Antony
Is warm'd by the rest, and takes it thankfully.
Exeunt
So full of frost, of storm and cloudiness?
so we wept, and there was the first gentleman-like
payment into ploughs, I warrant you.
It could not else be, I should prove so base,
If ye be any thing but churchmen's habits--
Our nineteen legions thou shalt hold by land,
That living mortals, hearing them, run mad:--
Enter, below, DIOMEDES
politic? am I subtle? am I a Machiavel? Shall I
Will want true colour; tears perchance for blood.
Shall be the label to another deed,
What we can do to him, though now the time
Is, that she will to virtuous Desdemona
With an imperial voice--many are infect.
directly to say 'I love you:' then if you urge me
To appoint myself in this vexation, sully
Ye cannot reason almost with a man
May hold him from the Capitol to-day.
Remembrance of my father-in-law, the duke,
These are a side that would be glad to have
Can snore upon the flint, when resty sloth
I know what you would say: if I have known her,
Enter GLOUCESTER, with his Serving-men in blue coats
I would have her learn, my fair cousin, how
How have you made division of yourself?
This being granted in course,--and now follows
From where you do remain let paper show.
Attend the queen and us; we shall have need
Screw'd to my memory? She hath been reading late
No, not my body nor my husband's bed:
Neither regarding that she is my child
He says his name is Master Fer.
And understand again like honest men;
Exeunt
Exeunt
it.
Give me thy hand. Who's there?
Flourish. Exeunt OCTAVIUS CAESAR, MARK ANTONY, and LEPIDUS
To avert your liking a more worthier way
That therefore such a writ be sued against you;
To pray for them that have done scathe to us.
It may be so, for it is not mine own.
Flowing and swelling o'er with arts and exercise:
Here sound an English march. Enter, and pass over at a distance, TALBOT and his forces
Take heed, my lord; the welfare of us all
I should know that voice: it should be--but he is
Thy crazed title to my certain right.
in music and mathematics: his name is Cambio; pray,
Thou art sure of me:--go, make money:--I have told
Before the Roman, nor to us hath tender'd
alike and none less dear than thine and my good
My lord?
Pewter and brass and all things that belong
We'll speak it, then.
Caesar should be a beast without a heart,
To wish me wed to one half lunatic;
Instruct my daughter how she shall persever,
Exit
Point against point rebellious, arm 'gainst arm.
Why, Hal, 'tis my vocation, Hal; 'tis no sin for a
Most honest men! Why, how shall I requite you?
But now I find I had suborn'd the witness,
O, I am press'd to death through want of speaking!
To give the onset to thy good advice.
That comes before his eye. This is a practise
Of very expert and approved allowance;
Thereon dependent, for your brother's life,--
Is my lord well, that he doth speak so wide?
Disorder, that hath spoil'd us, friend us now!
For if but once thou show me thy grey light,
And aid thee in this doubtful shock of arms:
That I am to pronounce Augustus Caesar--
him, nor any way sustain him.
SCENE IV. Another part of the field.
Foul words is but foul wind, and foul wind is but
Let's in;
And he is welcome. What! is this the man?
This Trojan scorns us; or the men of Troy
A brace of draymen bid God speed him well
When I bestrid thee in the wars and took
To make Judas hang himself.
By Suffolk and the Cardinal Beaufort's means.
that your grace had got the good will of this young
Then go successantly, and plead to him.
'Tis not a year or two shows us a man:
I sold not Maine, I lost not Normandy,
Speak thou no more, if all the rest will speed.
With opportunity of sharp revenge
With all respect and rites of burial.
Offering money
He used as creatures of another place
Thus to make poor females mad.
Therefore let him be consul: the gods give him joy,
Hadst thou groan'd for him
That all I see in you is worthy love,
I know when one is dead, and when one lives;
ACT III
Because your speech hath none that tells him so?
And who sits here that is not Richard's subject?
Fly, noble English, you are bought and sold;
Thither shall it then:
Thy evil spirit, Brutus.
What employment have we here?
And till the tears that she hath shed for thee
I trust the ghost of Talbot is not there:
O day untowardly turned!
Being the very fellow that of late
ask you what it means, say you this:
Well, what remedy? Fenton, heaven give thee joy!
Exit CASSANDRA
O, 'twas a din to fright a monster's ear,
Why 'her unhappy brother'? let me ask,
Then crush this herb into Lysander's eye;
Within that space you may have drawn together
Go, hide thee behind the arras: the rest walk up
And such barren plants are set before us, that we
If then the king your father will restore
Besides, it should appear, that if he had
And Paris too. Come, I'll dispose of thee
To stride a limit.
Of other your new pranks. I do beseech you
Should yawn at alteration.
after my degree, but fellow. Why, every thing
If could speak so wisely under an arrest, I would
But now you partly may perceive my mind.
Have suffer'd like a girl: yet thou dost look
Unstaid and skittish in all motions else,
Since then my office hath so far prevail'd
To fill King Edward's fame with prisoner kings
Romans, make way: the good Andronicus.
Their candles are all out. Take thee that too.
Yours; whom in constancy you think stands so safe.
As with a man by his own alms empoison'd,
Under your hard construction must I sit,
At such a bay, by turn to serve our lust.
We would not die in that man's company
I did not see your grace: humbly on my knee
My gracious lady, go;
He is knight, dubbed with unhatched rapier and on
Attends the emperor in his royal court.
That shows thee a weak slave; for the weakest goes
Yes, my lord, you see them perspectively, the cities
cross-gartered, even with the swiftness of putting
Let me see: marry, ill, to like him that ne'er it
Much good do you, scauld knave, heartily. Nay, pray
Exit LE BEAU
If we both stay, we both are sure to die.
my grace. Rich she shall be, that's certain; wise,
Why, then we shall have a stirring world again.
More rich for what they yielded.
In which assault we lost twelve hundred men;
Enter, to his tent, KING RICHARD III, NORFOLK, RATCLIFF, CATESBY, and others
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues by night,
Come, therefore, let's about it speedily.
The second name of men, obeys his points
To cease! Wast thou ordain'd, dear father,
Wednesday half an hour together: has such a
And then it was when the unhappy king,
Twixt me and death;'--and pointed to this brace;--
The sin upon my head, dread sovereign!
A foe to tyrants, and my country's friend;
We are fit to bid her welcome.
All put on their masks
woman; sometime the philosopher.
may be said to be an equivocator with lechery:
Exeunt all but PERICLES
Look back, defend thee, here are enemies.
ANTIPHOLUS
What charitable men afford to beggars.
You would have been contracted to a maid;
Be jolly, lords.
Noble Timon,
yet I wrong him to call him poor; they say the
Exeunt
Marry, she says that the very same man that
There are a kind of men so loose of soul,
Gone to her tent. Please it your majesty
Amen.
The wisest prince that there had reign'd by many
The better that it pleases your good worship to ask.
Since when I have been debtor to you for courtesies,
me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
Went he hence now?
For such proceeding I am charged withal,
I will not choose what many men desire,
Sirrah, do I owe you a thousand pound?
but, since it is as it is, mend it for your own good.
And bid the lady abbess come to me.
me in capite; and we charge and command that their
Of what I have begun.
Became a bull, and bellow'd; the green Neptune
How much they do to import, you would make haste.
fifty hairs' quoth he, 'and one white: that white
The trumpets sound. Enter KING HENRY IV, PRINCE  HENRY, LORD JOHN LANCASTER, EARL OF WESTMORELAND, with WORCESTER and VERNON prisoners
Which, I protest, hath very much beguiled
team of horse shall not pluck that from me; nor who
I know his gait, 'tis he.--Villain, thou diest!
Thy husband in thy bosom there lies dead;
Make this his latest farewell to their souls.
Of moving accidents by flood and field
Upon this French going out, took he upon him,
And know us by these colours for thy foes,
see your time, take her by the band, away with her
Go thou, and fill another room in hell.
Which care of them, not pity of myself,
To serve me last, that I may longest keep
Let me read.
Ay, come, Semiramis, nay, barbarous Tamora,
where I erected it.
Two kinsmen digg'd their graves with weeping eyes.
Ancient damnation! O most wicked fiend!
By heaven, I would most gladly have forgot it.
peradventures shall tell you another tale, if
There's not a note of mine that's worth the noting.
To ease the gnawing vulture of thy mind,
Ho, Lucilius! hark, a word with you.
Submits her to thy might; and of thee craves
Let me o'erleap that custom, for I cannot
That all the treasons for these eighteen years
Much danger do I undergo for thee.
You men of Angiers, open wide your gates,
There are my keys. But wherefore should I go?
'Tis but a man gone. Forth, my sword: he dies.
As fit as ten groats is for the hand of an attorney,
So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for
And pill by law. Maid, to thy master's bed;
It must needs be of subtle, tender and delicate
SONG.
That by misfortunes was my life prolong'd,
Hard by; at street end; he will be here anon.
The business we have talk'd of.
Appear before us? We'll yet enlarge that man,
I weigh it lightly, were it heavier.
And smilest upon the stroke that murders me.
Bell, book, and candle shall not drive me back,
she's noted.
Woe to her chance, and damn'd her loathed choice!
Hath left me gaged. To you, Antonio,
Of boundless tongue, who late hath beat her husband
The saddler had it, sir; I kept it not.
The curse my noble father laid on thee,
Build his statue to make him glorious:
Unto the frowning judge? or who pronounced
Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff
But I do not desire he should answer for me; and
Well, sir, I will; therefore, I will, sir; thus:
Concerning his imprisonment, was rather,
Well, thou hast a son shall take this disgrace off
board a dozen or fourteen gentlewomen that live
In face, in gait, in speech, he doth resemble:
You could not with more tame a tongue desire it:
Dearly my delicate Ariel. Do not approach
Must I then do't to them?
May't please your majesty to give us leave
I will kneel to him.
Who shortly also died: for whose dear love,
And all that are assembled in this place,
I cry you mercy, uncle. By your grace's pardon.
To speak the ceremonial rites of marriage!
Thou art a cobbler, art thou?
First, that, without the king's assent or knowledge,
Bardolph, am I not fallen away vilely since this last
Was woe enough, if it had ended there:
Lady, you know no rules of charity,
The third of Antioch;
Of homage and I know not how much tribute,
Hundreds he sent to hell, and none durst stand him;
There is no better way than that they spoke of.
Is he alone?
For I do see the cruel pangs of death
hear of it hereafter. But shall we have this
Mistress, you must come away to your father.
Who!--nay, then: come, come, you'll do him wrong
Conceal me what I am, and be my aid
Go, fool, and whom thou keep'st command.
Enter PROTEUS and JULIA
Sir, will you hear me?
and my staff understands me.
Exeunt Tribunes
Say no more:
As thou art tender to't.
Exit
His countenance likes me not.
ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL yet,
The stomach of my sense. Would I had never
Cuts off his tale and talks of Arthur's death.
Shall be well winged with our chiefest horse.
To blench from this and to stand firm by honour:
Were not revenge sufficient for me;
A sunny look of his would soon repair
how oft, that ring was copper!
Apparel vice like virtue's harbinger;
Is this the honour they do one another?
Rivers. that died at Pomfret! despair, and die!
He said he was gentle, but unfortunate;
Her countless glory, which desert must gain;
To Pepin or Clotharius, they keep state so.
Cancel and tear to pieces that great bond
PROLOGUE
Sleeping or waking, 'tis no matter how,
remain unseduced, you not making it appear
Are shuffled off with such uncurrent pay:
And lift my soul to heaven. Lead on, o' God's name.
Imagine howling: 'tis too horrible!
Her faults will ne'er be known,
An if you leave me so, you do me wrong.
most nearly appertains to us both. I think our
That's due to all the villains past, in being,
Commend the paper to his gracious hand,
Seeking the food he eats
O, sir,--
In all the rest show'd a most noble patience.
But no more deep will I endart mine eye
O mischief strangely thwarting!
And for the proffer of my lord your master,
And show thee all the treasure we have got,
Because the king, forsooth, will have it so.
Or useful serving-man and instrument,
sithence, in the loss that may happen, it concerns
The ground indeed is tawny.
Juno but an Ethiope were;
Exit POINS
Friend,
The third day comes a frost, a killing frost,
Bear the great sway of his affairs with reasons,
To pluck on others.
And may be so we shall.
Of dangerous majesty, when perchance it frowns
For they have fought for Rome, and all in vain;
For tender princes, use my babies well!
SCENE I. Saint Alban's.
In troth, I think she would. Fare you well, then.
Famous Plantagenet, most gracious prince,
For the rain,  and c.
ALONSO, SEBASTIAN  and c. draw their swords
himself, for he does neither affect company, nor is
Ay.
You have congreeted, let it not disgrace me,
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Under whose warrant I impeach thy wrong
is not true. The knight, Sir John, is there; and, I
Of heavy Pericles; think this his bark:
thyself a pleasure, me a sport. There are many
Talk with a man out at a window! A proper saying!
I know not what he shall. God send him well!
I like him well; 'tis not amiss. And I was about to
I'll fetch them, sir.
Good morrow, Kate; for that's your name, I hear.
For he is just and always loved us well.
What, Brutus!
I'ld give it to undo the deed. O lady,
That so I harried him. Why, methinks, by him,
For your dwelling,--briefly.
And perish constant fools. Who is't can blame him?
Yet he shall have a noble memory. Assist.
fairer. He that is proud eats up himself: pride is
Of twenty men, it would dispatch you straight.
Like Patience gazing on kings' graves, and smiling
I cannot strike at wretched kerns, whose arms
How now, my headstrong! where have you been gadding?
But that's all one, our play is done,
How in my strength you please. For you, Edmund,
This, I presume, will wake him.
To enter human hearing, from Argier,
'Tis very true: thou didst it excellent.
No more, I pray,--and he's a steward.
His access to me.
as you are, against 'em: know you me yet?
And Cassio following him with determined sword,
That have revolted wives, the tenth of mankind
This heavy-headed revel east and west
That stay at home, if bearing carry it,
and a lanthorn, and say he comes to disfigure, or to
They offer to bind Dromio of Ephesus
To qualify in others: were he meal'd with that
Succeed before the younger, I am king.
Soft! and the impressure her Lucrece, with which she
my blindness, who cannot see many a fair French city
Wherein he puts alms for oblivion,
But what should go by water. Prithee, tonight
SCENE III. A churchyard; in it a tomb belonging to the Capulets.
I would I had thy inches; thou shouldst know
You fled for vantage, everyone will swear;
Sirrah, go see what trumpet 'tis that sounds:
The actor may plead pardon. I'll none now:
I do, my lord, and mean accordingly.
What if both Lewis and Warwick be appeased
I have a woman's longing.
Your Coriolanus
And brought to yoke, the enemies of Rome.
Beelzebub? Here's a farmer, that hanged
Give me thy hand.
That, knowing sin within, will touch the gate.
Exeunt
persuading me to it.
As the Spirit speaks, SOUTHWELL writes the answer
Now here he fights on Galathe his horse,
A short alarum within
He met the duke in the street, sir, of whom he hath
But like to groves, being topp'd, they higher rise.
That follow'd me so near,--O, our lives' sweetness!
More pregnantly than words. Yet you do well
exceedingly narrowly to thee.
My brother he is in Elysium.
With whom my soul is any jot at odds
As a wren's eye, fear'd gods, a part of it!
I never saw before. Great-bellied women,
Cost him his eyes.
Shall kin with kin and kind with kind confound;
Ever shall be fortunate.
To thee I do commend my watchful soul,
Nor I.
'Tis death for any one in Mantua
home and to trouble you with no more suit, unless
My practises ride easy! I see the business.
And, her attendants absent, swallow'd fire.
Exeunt
But I'll unto his majesty, and crave
Go, go, dispatch.
What, is he arrested? Tell me at whose suit.
Clamour'd the livelong night: some say, the earth
His rougher accents for malicious sounds,
The French, my lord; men's mouths are full of it:
When you are gentle, you shall have one too,
you hag, you; come down, I say!
Stab poniards in our flesh till all were told,
EPILOGUE
That wants the means to lead it.
especially to know himself.
See me no more, whether he be dead or no.
tender, a kind of tender, made afar off by Sir Hugh
Trow you who hath done this?
better stead thee than now. Put money in thy
seal-ring of my grandfather's worth forty mark.
Fairly offer'd.
In neither aught, or in extremity.
man! Would the duke that is absent have done this?
It is a fault that springeth from your eye.
All but Metellus Cimber; and he's gone
How should I be revenged?
My learn'd and well-beloved servant, Cranmer,
Be not offended:
And, having gilt the ocean with his beams,
Would I had never come from thence, nor you Thither!
Thou art deceived: 'tis not thy southern power,
Among the high tides in the calendar?
So please you,--
As the sweet Troilus. O you gods divine!
He did comply with his dug, before he sucked it.
Neither supreme, how soon confusion
What will Biron say when that he shall hear
Hark, villains! I will grind your bones to dust
Here comes another troop to seek for you.
O love, dispatch all business, and be gone!
That will be thaw'd from the true quality
[Awaking]  And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake.
Exit
Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed,
How mean soe'er, that have their honest wills,
Forgive me, Valentine: if hearty sorrow
Discredit my authority with yours;
stay behind her father; let her to the Greeks; and so
And, in despite of mirth, mean to be merry.
Good night:
curiosity; in thy rags thou knowest none, but art
Held up his left hand, which did flame and burn
And so repose, sweet gold, for their unrest
prove an ass.
To please the fool and death.
Fellow, what miracle dost thou proclaim?
My lord, that would dishonour him.
Walks and whispers
The fineness of which metal is not found
Exeunt severally
My lord: he doth entreat your grace;
Now, good Camillo;
[Aside]                It works.
presents Hector of Troy; the swain, Pompey the
Cleave in the midst, and perish.
That once were his, and is become as black
Your stinking greasy caps in hooting at
I am content.
O Cassio, whence came this?
A flourish. Cornets. Enter TULLUS AUFIDIUS, bloody, with two or three Soldiers
To me and to the state of my great grief
For I have bought it with an hundred blows.
And sigh'd my English breath in foreign clouds,
Do draw the inward quality after them,
Be strong in whore, allure him, burn him up;
And I do hope good days and long to see.
I'll have five hundred voices of that sound.
The doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss
Tell him, so please him come unto this place,
He was quick mettle when he went to school.
Promising to bring it to the Porpentine,
Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! rage! blow!
With envy of each other's happiness,
My temple stands in Ephesus: hie thee thither,
wilfully seeks her own salvation?
Deadly divorce step between me and you!
Say to great Caesar this: in deputation
Here, here comes master Signior Leonato, and the
But, sure, I fear, we shall ne'er win him to it.
For love is crowned with the prime
The benefit of our levies, answering us
Now, Tybalt, take the villain back again,
Because we know, on Valentine's report,
In heaven; send hither to see: if your messenger
To her desired Posthumus: gone she is
Keep their fur dry, unbonneted he runs,
O, that's as much as you would be denied
When Talbot hath set footing once in France
You offer him, if this be so, a wrong
Believe me, noble lord,
Then know that I, one Snug the joiner, am
My tongue to such a pace:--'Look, sir, my wounds!
And something spoke in choler, ill, and hasty:
Stand in bold cure.
And look where Publius is come to fetch me.
Now, tell me, Proteus, what's your will with me?
I life would wish, and that I might
by reckoning, sir.
No such jade as you, if me you mean.
Charges she more than me?
Diana's temple is not distant far,
That only to stand high in your account,
'Tis done, my gracious lord.
And see the cities and the towns defaced
Will drive away distemper. To some shade,
Yes, here I tender it for him in the court;
Return thee therefore with a flood of tears,
With carrion men, groaning for burial.
But thought's the slave of life, and life time's fool;
With politic grave counsel; then the king
divide a minute into a thousand parts and break but
The soldier's pole is fall'n: young boys and girls
Art thou god to shepherd turn'd,
My daughter's buried. Well: where were you bred?
Exit
To make the sceptre his: these very words
Than keep a corner in the thing I love
An honourable husband. Come, Camillo,
To see our widower's second marriage-day.
Shall lodge thee till thy wound be thoroughly heal'd;
The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch,
Welcome, destruction, death, and massacre!
day into the compassed window,--and, you know, he
By this Lord Angelo perceives he's safe;
[Reads]
A modern ecstasy; the dead man's knell
For which the people's prayers still fall upon you,
goodness in worm.
You are gentlemen of brave metal; you would lift
Exit
I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.
Freely to render what we have in charge;
The rest will comfort, for thy counsel's sound.
I'll fetch him presently.
My tender youth was never yet attaint